A male tiger rests in the cage at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) in Entebbe, Uganda, Oct. 8, 2020. Uganda on Wednesday unveiled a pair of tigers at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) here, 40km south of the capital Kampala. James Musinguzi, the executive director of UWEC said the animals, a male and a female, were from a South African partner zoo. They arrived in the country on March 7 and have since been under the watch of the veterinary team at UWEC. (Photo by Hajarah Nalwadda/Xinhua) 

A female tiger rests in the cage at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) in Entebbe, Uganda, Oct. 12, 2020. Uganda on Wednesday unveiled a pair of tigers at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) here, 40km south of the capital Kampala. James Musinguzi, the executive director of UWEC said the animals, a male and a female, were from a South African partner zoo. They arrived in the country on March 7 and have since been under the watch of the veterinary team at UWEC. (Photo by Hajarah Nalwadda/Xinhua)  



A female tiger rests in the cage at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) in Entebbe, Uganda, Oct. 8, 2020. Uganda on Wednesday unveiled a pair of tigers at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) here, 40km south of the capital Kampala. James Musinguzi, the executive director of UWEC said the animals, a male and a female, were from a South African partner zoo. They arrived in the country on March 7 and have since been under the watch of the veterinary team at UWEC. (Photo by Hajarah Nalwadda/Xinhua) 



A male tiger rests in the cage at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) in Entebbe, Uganda, Oct. 8, 2020. Uganda on Wednesday unveiled a pair of tigers at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) here, 40km south of the capital Kampala. James Musinguzi, the executive director of UWEC said the animals, a male and a female, were from a South African partner zoo. They arrived in the country on March 7 and have since been under the watch of the veterinary team at UWEC. (Photo by Hajarah Nalwadda/Xinhua) Uganda on Wednesday unveiled a pair of tigers at the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) here, 40km south of the capital Kampala. James Musinguzi, the executive director of UWEC said the animals, a male and a female, were from a South African partner zoo. They arrived in the country on March 7 and have since been under the watch of the veterinary team at UWEC. Musinguzi, at the media launch, said the animals will be transferred to their specialized exhibit next week and would be ready for the public to see. The specialized exhibit has been made suitable to mimic their habitat. "Tigers naturally occur in the wild in Asia. In Africa they only appear in zoos and captive settings," Musinguzi said, noting that UWEC will be the only place in Uganda to see the animals. "Seeing, hearing and smelling the tiger up close for the first time, can be an unforgettable experience," he said. Tigers are globally listed as "Endangered" on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement