Lisa Photo: Sina WeiboMagazine Elle China revealed in a video teaser that Lisa, a member of the popular South Korean girl band Blackpink, will grace the cover of its December issue. The video, which showed the idol posing for the photo shoot, quickly began trending on both Twitter and China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo. In the video, the K-pop super star can be seen wearing clothing from French luxury brand Celine, for which she is an ambassador. Additionally, the star recalled her memories of being a trainee before her debut and shared her experiences and feelings about her career."I personally think competition is a good thing. Only through this will there be a motivation to strive higher; there will be the positive drive of 'I want to do better, I want to win.' From another perspective, competition is what makes people work harder to fight for what they want, and grow and make more improvements," Lisa said, going on to mention she shared this viewpoint with the trainees on Chinese reality show Youth With You Season 2 while she was a dance mentor on the show.She also pointed out that everyone experiences "difficult times," but she and the other three members of Blackpink trust and support each other with positivity - "Come on, we can definitely make our debut!"The video quickly went viral on Twitter and Sina Weibo, with many netizens from China and other countries commenting that watching the interview filled them with positive energy and hope for life. "Lisa being on the cover of Elle China's year-end issue is very significant. She is the first female star born after 1985 who has not appeared in any dramas to be on the cover of one of the five biggest magazines in China," one netizen wrote on Twitter."Lisa is my sunshine. 2020 has been a hard year for many people, including me, but after seeing her interview, I gained more confidence that we can get through this difficult period. I am really looking forward to more Blackpink concerts after the global COVID-19 pandemic ends," Zhao Wang, a member of Lisa's Chinese fan club Lisa Bar, told the Global Times.In order to further promote the idol, some Lisa fan clubs are launching fundraisers to purchase copies of the December issue. "After we buy them, the magazines will be placed in local cafeterias for promotional purposes," one fan club member explained in a post on Twitter.   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese fans concerned after Blackpink’s Lisa gets death threat Chinese fans to give surprise celebration of Lisa’s birthday  'Youth With You' to return with Lisa and Cai Xukun for second season Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement