Photo taken on Nov. 3, 2020 shows a damaged classroom after a deadly terrorist attack at Kabul University in Kabul, Afghanistan. (Xinhua/Rahmatullah Alizadah) The United Nations Security Council on Thursday strongly condemned the terrorist attack that took place at Kabul University in Afghanistan and killed at least 22 people. The members of the Security Council, through a press statement, condemned "in the strongest terms the atrocious and cowardly terrorist attack" that took place at the university on Nov. 2. The attack, which was claimed by Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/Da'esh), resulted in at least 22 people killed, including university students, and dozens of students wounded. The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the government of Afghanistan, and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured. They expressed their grave concern over the continuing violence in Afghanistan, which continues to take the lives of innocent civilians. The Council members stressed that any attack deliberately targeting education facilities as such is "unacceptable." They also stressed that these attacks target and endanger the hope for and prospects of a brighter future for the country. The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed. They reaffirmed the need for all states to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement