A view of Lanzhou, capital of Northwest China's Gansu Province. Photo: Lao Ma/GT
Eight people have been held accountable for a brucellosis incident in Lanzhou, Northwest China's Gansu Province, in which 6,620 people have been found infected. 

The incident happened between July and August 2019, when the Zhongmu Lanzhou biological pharmaceutical factory used expired disinfectant in its Brucella vaccine production, leading to bacteria-containing aerosols leaking in the area.
A total of 55,725 people have been tested so far near the factory, accounting for 97.5 percent of the total residents in Yanchang Road sub-district, the worst impacted area, and 6,620 have been confirmed infected.
Eight people responsible for the incident in the pharmaceutical factory were fired or warned, an official of the Lanzhou Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Affairs said at the press conference.
The first compensation fund of 10 million yuan has been allocated on September 24 for monitoring, diagnosis, treatment and compensation for the infected. Zhongmu Lanzhou biological pharmaceutical factory promised to guarantee the subsequent compensation and compensation in full.
As of November 4, 126 patients had been treated in 11 designated hospitals in Lanzhou. The city has opened green channels and special clinics for people who report symptoms and provide free standardized treatment, according to the Lanzhou Health Commission.
Wei Qingxiang, deputy mayor of Lanzhou, said that Lanzhou will continue to conduct free testing for people who have to be tested and are willing to be tested. People who are positive for antibodies and have adverse reactions will receive free and standard treatment and will be provided with long-term health monitoring and lifelong care.
The local government will urge the company to further speed up the relocation of the plant out of the city, to eliminate the source of hidden dangers, Wei said.
  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Brucellosis infections in NW China worse than earlier revealed More than 3,000 people test positive for Brucellosis in Lanzhou, NW China's Gansu Province Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement