A member of staff works at a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 

A member of staff works at a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 



Parcels are seen on the belts at a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 



Parcels are sorted on the belts at a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 



Trucks are seen outside a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 



Photo taken on Nov. 26, 2020 shows a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 



Members of staff work at a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua 



Members of staff work at a sorting center of Bpost, the Belgian postal service, in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 26, 2020. Belgium is currently under strict lockdown measures against the COVID-19 pandemic, as all non-essential businesses are closed. As the Black Friday and Christmas season approaches, Bpost faces increasing amount of parcels due to the rising demand of e-commerce.Photo:Xinhua Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement