A man waits to vote during the in-person early voting for U.S. president in Alexandria, Virginia, the United States, on Sept. 18, 2020. In-person early voting for the U.S. president kicked off Friday in the U.S. state of Virginia and will run through Oct. 31. Residents have the option of either voting in-person or by mail before Election Day on Nov. 3.Photo:XinhuaThe US and Europe are undergoing a spike in COVID-19 cases, but are reacting quite differently. France and Germany have declared a second nationwide lockdown, while the UK has announced a second one for England. However, the US is focusing on the presidential election. The White House has been downplaying the impact of the epidemic resurgence, and said that the US is "not going to control" the epidemic. As the center of the West, the US is bound to be a big loophole in global efforts to contain COVID-19.The US presidential election has seriously impacted COVID-19 prevention, resulting in an untold negative influence. The Trump administration misjudged the epidemic early this year, leading to its ineptitude in the virus fight. The election has made the Trump administration stick to its wrong approach. It is also brazenly telling lies, trying to deceive Americans and keep the US on an anti-science track. Joe Biden and the Democrats have repeatedly criticized the current administration and echoed the assertions of scientists. But this is happening in an American political system of division. The criticism in this context has further politicized their domestic epidemic response issues, making it more like a campaign effort rather than a choice between right and wrong. The two groups of American elites have opposite beliefs on how to deal with the epidemic. One group advocates opening the economy and opposing face covering, while the other stresses the importance of fighting the epidemic, and calls for wearing masks. Such a difference has nothing to do with the gap in their cognitive level, but is based on their party affiliation. Whether or not US anti-virus policy should be adjusted is not determined by the objective situation of the epidemic, or by scientists. Rather, it is a "political decision" that depends on the outcome of the election. It is not too much to describe the situation as unbelievable.The US' epidemic fight and its election have set a terrible example to the world. It is not only a disgrace to US power but also to the American liberal system. It is not just the current US administration that should be held accountable for such serious mistakes in fighting the epidemic. The entire US system of decision making has gone wrong.As the leader of the West, the US could have set another example of how to actively fight the epidemic and contain it, which would inspire Europe and many other countries. The pandemic is too strong for a single European country, considering their small size, while public health capacities of Brazil and India are relatively weak. It is such a pity that the US not only failed to set a strong example in the West when it most needs one, but performed even worse than others.It is hoped that after the election, no matter who wins the race, political disruption over the virus fight will come to an end in the US. It is also hoped that scientific thought will take center stage to battle the epidemic, and help achieve global cooperation in containing the pandemic.Over 46 million people have been infected, with more than 1.2 million deaths. This has become a worldwide humanitarian crisis. To end it, the world should at least have an objective knowledge of it and unite against it. But the world has failed in both aspects due to the US. The US is said to have strong capabilities of error correction, which clearly didn't deliver during the pandemic. After the election, there would be a temporary period in which neither Republicans nor Democrats need to deceive their people. What will happen then? Let's wait and see.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China must forge own path however US election goes: Global Times editorial Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement