Riot police stand guard during a protest outside the Iraqi capital Baghdad's Green Zone on Saturday, demanding the departure of remaining US forces from Iraq. Photo: AFPA volley of rockets slammed into the Iraqi capital Baghdad late Tuesday, killing one girl and breaking a month-long truce on attacks against the US embassy. The violence came as Washington announced a historic cut in its troop numbers in Iraq and Afghanistan. According to the Iraqi military, four of the rockets landed in the high-security Green Zone, where the US embassy and other foreign missions are based. Another three rockets hit other parts of Baghdad, killing one girl and wounding five civilians. All seven rockets were launched from the same location in east Baghdad, the Iraqi military said in a statement.A spokesperson for the US-led coalition said Iraqi intelligence had confirmed a rocket attack on the US embassy but declined to comment on the C-RAM usage.Since October 2019, nearly 90 deadly rocket attacks and roadside bombs have targeted foreign embassies, troops and other installations across Iraq. The attacks have been claimed by groups described by both US and Iraqi officials as "smokescreens" for hard-line Iran-aligned factions in Iraq. The US has explicitly named Kataeb Hezbollah as behind some of the violence and has twice bombed the group. The attacks infuriated Washington, which has pressured Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhemi to take tougher action against the perpetrators.In October, the US issued an ultimatum to the Iraqi government, threatening to close down its diplomatic compound in Baghdad if the rockets did not stop.The escalation prompted pro-Iran factions to announce a truce for an unspecified amount of time. The rockets immediately halted, with Tuesday's attack the first in more than a month.It came just hours after US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who Iraqi sources said had relayed the threat to close the embassy, called Kadhemi.Around the same time, the US announced it would slash troop levels in Afghanistan and Iraq to 2,500 in each country, their lowest levels in nearly 20 years of war. Washington still has some 3,000 troops stationed across Iraq. AFP 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  IS surprise attack west of Baghdad kills 11: security, medical sources Night view of al-Zawra Park in Baghdad, Iraq Beekeeper extracts honey from honeycomb in Baghdad, Iraq Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement