Photo taken on March 29, 2019 shows the Berlaymont Building, the European Commission headquarters, in Brussels, Belgium. Brussels is the capital and the largest city of Belgium. It also enjoys the reputation of the "capital of the Europe", because it hosts a number of principal European Union (EU) institutions including European Council, European Commission, Council of the EU and a branch of the European Parliament. (Xinhua/Zhang Cheng)China, as a victim of disinformation, has always opposed the creation and spread of disinformation by any people or organization, said the Chinese Commission to the EU on Wednesday, in response to the EU's joint communication claiming China has been engaged in targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns amid the pandemic. The communication refers to China selectively, and does not mention anything about those who produce anti-China and anti-science disinformation. We hope that the EU can address the relevant issues in a fact-based, unbiased and rational manner, commission spokesperson Zhang Ming said. The communication claimed that foreign actors and certain third countries, in particular Russia and China, have engaged in targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns in the EU, its neighboring regions and globally, according to the EU's website.Zhang mentioned China's tremendous efforts and the huge price it has paid in fighting the coronavirus, and that it has successfully brought the situation under control. China and the EU have also helped and supported each other in a humanitarian and friendly spirit, which are facts that both sides should recognize and respect. China and the EU are not systemic rivals, but comprehensive strategic partners. While remaining firmly committed to the path of its own choice, China has no intention to export its system and development model, nor to participate in any "battle of narratives," Zhang said, noting that at the moment, spreading disinformation and trading accusations will not help tackle the COVID-19 pandemic.The international community should work together to reject disinformation and jointly safeguard global public health in the hope of overcoming the pandemic at an early date, Zhang said. Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese confirmed to be infected with COVID-19 on first chartered flight from India EU countries move to further reopen borders US COVID-19 cases exceed 2 million: Johns Hopkins University Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement