Photo: Xinhua
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Monday that he will sign an executive order on police reform on Tuesday."The overall goal is we want law and order and we want it done fairly, justly. We want it done safely," Trump told reporters at the White House."This is about law and order, but it's about justice also," he said.The move comes amid growing calls for action following the death of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American man, in police custody in Minneapolis, Minnesota late last month, which has triggered nationwide demonstrations against police brutality and racism.

Combo photo shows police officer Derek Chauvin (L) and George Floyd. Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck for almost nine minutes on May 25, 2020, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, while the latter one kept saying "I can't breathe." Floyd later died in police custody. (Xinhua)
The outcry has intensified after a white police officer shot and killed Rayshard Brooks, a 27-year-old African American man, in Atlanta, Georgia last week."The trust that we have with the police force is broken and the only way to heal some of these wounds is through a conviction and a drastic change with the police department," Brooks's cousin said Monday.Asked about the Brooks case on Monday afternoon, Trump called it "very disturbing.""I thought it was a terrible situation," he said. "I studied it closely. I'm going to get some reports done today, very strong reports, and we'll have a little more to say about it tomorrow."Brooks was shot twice in the back and died from organ damage and blood loss from the wounds, the Fulton County Medical Examiner's Office said in a statement on Sunday.Garrett Rolfe, the officer who shot Brooks, was fired. A second officer, Devin Brosnan, was placed on administrative duty. Atlanta Police Chief Erika Shields resigned over the shooting.Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard said his office is hoping to announce a decision about possible charges by the middle of next week.

This undated photo widely circulated on the Internet shows 27-year-old African American Rayshard Brooks looking to the camera with a light smile. (Xinhua)
Brooks died after a confrontation with police officers who were responding to a complaint that he was asleep in the drive-thru of a restaurant.Police said the officers tried to take Brooks into custody after he failed a sobriety test, which led to a struggle between the two sides. Police claimed that Brooks, while allegedly resisting, grabbed an officer's Taser and ran off with it.Footage capturing the scene from the restaurant's parking lot showed that Brooks turned around and appeared to point the stun gun at the police officers before being shot.An ambulance transferred Brooks to a local hospital, where he died after undergoing surgery.The shooting prompted protests over the weekend in Atlanta, and the restaurant where the shooting took place was set aflame.Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms announced on Monday that she is signing a series of administrative orders to reform the use of force within the Atlanta Police Department.Bottoms, speaking to reporters, said that she and the city will continue to do what the city needs to do to ensure all Atlantans are treated with dignity and respect."We saw the worst happen on Friday night with Mr. Brooks. It angered me and it saddened me beyond words," she said. "Burning down buildings will not get us change in this city because if anything it is going to erase the message and it is going to eclipse what this is all about." Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement