A worker works at a construction site in Clichy, near Paris, France, June 11, 2020. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) Starting from Monday it would be possible for France to "turn the page on the first act of the crisis" that had forced France into nearly two months of anti-coronavirus lockdown followed by a gradual and cautious deconfinement, President Emmanuel Macron declared on Sunday. With the exception of Mayotte and French Guiana, the entire map of France will go green, including Ile-de-France, the great Paris region, said Macron in a televised address to the nation, a fourth one since the outbreak of the epidemic. "This means a stronger resumption of work and the reopening of restaurants and bars," he said. "In France and overseas, nurseries, schools, colleges will prepare to welcome, from June 22, all students, in a compulsory manner and according to normal attendance rules," Macron noted. 

A waiter wearing a mask works at Cafe de Flore at its reopening day in Paris, France, June 2, 2020. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) The second round of the municipal elections will take place on June 28 "in a very supervised manner," he added. Meanwhile, the president stressed that gatherings must be avoided as much as possible because "they are the main opportunities for the spread of the virus." The president also noted that the health crisis has revealed flaws and weaknesses of France, such as dependence on other continents for certain products, cumbersome organization, social and regional inequalities. "Our strengths will strengthen them, our weaknesses, we will correct them quickly and strongly," he pledged. "I want us to learn all the lessons from what we have experienced." For the "reconstruction...our first priority is to rebuild a strong, ecological, sovereign and united economy," said Macron. He announced that he will address the nation again in July to clarify the "new path" and "launch the first actions." 

A worker works at a construction site in Clichy, near Paris, France, June 11, 2020. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement