Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying Photo: fmprc.gov.cnThe Chinese Foreign Ministry on Thursday urged the Australian side to recognize its problem and address it rather than point fingers at the Chinese government, which is being responsible in reminding its citizens to pay attention to safety. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison declared that Australia will not surrender its values in response to "coercion" from China, adding that Australia provides the best tourism and education products in the world.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying underlined that China's travel and education alerts, based on sufficient evidence, are reminders for tourists and Chinese students to take note of the risks and arrange their plans accordingly. This is the obligation of any responsible government to protect its citizens' legal rights and interests. Where does the "coercion" come from? Hua asked. Acts of discrimination and violence have been reported on Australian media and the Chinese Embassy in Australia has received complaints and people asking for help. If Australia fails to or dares not recognize the obvious evidence, where does its confidence (in tourism and education products) come from? Hua said. "We urge the Australian side to face up to the problem and reflect on itself and take actual measures to guarantee the safety and rights of Chinese citizens in Australia," Hua noted. Amid the escalation in racist attacks against Chinese and other Asians in Australia, including verbal slurs and violent assaults, the Chinese Ministry of Culture and Tourism issued a travel alert on June 5. The Chinese Ministry of Education followed by releasing an alert, warning students not to travel or return to Australia due to racism and the COVID-19 pandemic. Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  EU report tarnishing China and Russia as spreaders of viral misinformation slammed by Chinese FM Preposterous Harvard paper used as ammunition to spread fake info to attack China: FM Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement