Greek Ambassador to China Georgios Iliopoulos Photo: Courtesy of Greek Embassy in BeijingChina and Greece can work together and overcome the coronavirus crisis with a stronger relationship. As the crisis has created a dreadful, unprecedented situation, it's necessary to open up economies and help each other by promoting trade and investment in all the fields that both Greece and China are interested in, the Greek Ambassador told the Global Times.Ambassador Georgios Iliopoulos told the Global Times in an exclusive interview that Greece is happy to have Chinese investments like the Port of Piraeus projects, which he called a huge success for both countries. Asked about the fact that China's help to the international community in the fight against coronavirus is smeared by some as having ulterior motives of increasing its regional influence, Iliopoulos noted to the Global Times in the interview that aid has often been seen as a facet of public diplomacy and a strategic foreign policy tool aimed at enhancing the donor country's soft power. "I see no problem with this, as long as any aid, from any country, is carried out in the spirit of true friendship and assistance in sustaining the fight against the pandemic. Moreover, it has to demonstrate willingness of donor countries to become responsible stakeholders in our common effort to spur again economic growth under the principles of equity, fairness, reciprocity, transparency, with a same set of rules and a level playing field. It is high time we focus on what lies ahead - restarting our economies," he said.China sent free medical aid supplies and medical aid teams, as well as shared its own experience in combating the virus, to help other countries and international organizations recover from the pandemic.

Aerial photo shows the Piraeus port in Greece. Development of Piraeus port, Greece's largest harbor, is still progressing as planned despite the COVID-19 crisis. Photo : ICSafe destinationRegarding economic ties and cooperation, the ambassador said Greece's successful response to the coronavirus crisis makes the country an ideal candidate to become a major shareholder in this year's limited global tourism market. "We are looking forward to receiving larger numbers of quality visitors from China in thematic trips, such as luxury, educational, health and wellness, sports, leisure and, of course, cultural and gastronomic tourism. The much-anticipated expansion of air flight connections between China and Greece in the near future and Greece's registration as a safe destination will be decisive in achieving this aim," he said.This year, Greece's long-awaited tourist season begins in June. The Greek government has announced that as of June 15, Greece's doors will open again for tourists from a specific group of 29 countries with good epidemiological characteristics, including China. This is obviously a "vote of confidence" for China's efforts in containing the pandemic, and a telling example of the importance attached by Greece on our bilateral tourism relations, he added.According to the ambassador, economic relations between the two countries should not be limited to tourism and investments in sectors such as infrastructure, energy and real estate, but also include the primary and secondary sectors of the economy, notably agribusiness and manufacturing.He stressed Greece's strategic position at the crossroads of three continents and its quality human capital that provides many opportunities in the field of innovation and research for goods and health services. The ambassador predicted such sectors will be the center of international consumption in the coming years. Chinese enterprises, state-owned or private, may seek numerous competitive advantages in Greece, in areas such as manufacturing, food-processing, healthcare, life sciences, pharmaceuticals, and real estate assets in the tourism sector, as well as film and creative industries. Greece has a new investment-friendly environment and financing instruments for the co-funding of many potential projects, he said.Friendship reaffirmedIliopoulos told the Global Times the coronavirus crisis has reaffirmed bilateral friendship and close cooperation, and has demonstrated additional potential. "Both countries are ancient civilizations, highly value life, are family-centered and attach great importance to the protection of the elderly, kids and the vulnerable. Our societies enjoy a collective wisdom of perseverance and a spirit of unity in the face of danger, and the mobilization of our collective wisdom has greatly contributed to shielding our countries during this crisis," he said.The diplomat gave credit to the extensive and comprehensive measures both China and Greece took to contain the virus.Both countries collaborated closely, shared information and exchanged scientific data. "China dispatched timely aid to Greece and was also Greece's main provider of large quantities of medical and prevention equipment purchased by the government and donors from Greece.""Now, all of us need to focus on what lies ahead - the gradual return to everyday life and the restart of our economies. The common challenge of the pandemic requires common policies and rules, regarding not only prevention, but ways to spur growth," he said.As for bilateral projects, the ambassador said preparations for implementing the master plan of COSCO in the Port of Piraeus have never ceased, even during the COVID-19 crisis. "This has been an emblematic and mutually beneficial project," he said.According to him, the revised master plan includes at least €610 million ($692 million) of mandatory investments, the construction of a new cruise pier, upgrading of the ship repair zone infrastructure, a shopping center, a car terminal and a general expansion of the port's logistics. Highly anticipated is also the additional investment of €300 million regarding a fourth container terminal that will raise the port's capacity to 10 million TEUs annually and make it one of the busiest in Europe, he said. "Greece hopes that the expansion of the Chinese investment in Piraeus will showcase the novel possibilities Greece has to offer as an investment destination."Newspaper headline: Success for both 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Health safety is top priority for Greece as tourism season starts: PM BRI lights future for Greece-China ties Medical worker performs COVID-19 test in Amorgos, Greece Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement