Serbian Defense Minister Aleksandar Vulin (L) awards a military memorial medal to Chinese expert medical team member Tang Kejing in Belgrade, Serbia, June 1, 2020. Another three members of a six-strong Chinese expert medical team to Serbia were awarded on Monday with military memorial medals for their assistance in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua/Shi Zhongyu)  

Serbian Defense Minister Aleksandar Vulin (L) awards a military memorial medal to Chinese expert medical team member Cheng Shouzhen in Belgrade, Serbia, June 1, 2020. Another three members of a six-strong Chinese expert medical team to Serbia were awarded on Monday with military memorial medals for their assistance in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua/Shi Zhongyu)  

Serbian Defense Minister Aleksandar Vulin (5th L) and Chinese Ambassador to Serbia Chen Bo (4th R) pose for a group photo with members of Chinese expert medical team during an award ceremony in Belgrade, Serbia, June 1, 2020. Another three members of a six-strong Chinese expert medical team to Serbia were awarded on Monday with military memorial medals for their assistance in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua/Shi Zhongyu)  

Serbian Defense Minister Aleksandar Vulin (L) awards a military memorial medal to Chinese expert medical team member Liu Dayue in Belgrade, Serbia, June 1, 2020. Another three members of a six-strong Chinese expert medical team to Serbia were awarded on Monday with military memorial medals for their assistance in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua/Shi Zhongyu)  Another three members of a six-strong Chinese expert medical team to Serbia were awarded on Monday with military memorial medals for their assistance in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.The medals were awarded by Serbian Defense Minister Aleksandar Vulin to the three members, who arrived on May 4 to replace their colleagues.Following the award ceremony, Cheng Shouzhen, a member of the Chinese medical team, said the team has toured many places in Serbia, such as COVID-19 hospitals, elderly care facilities, and child care centers."We shared our experience gained in China and especially in Wuhan. We openly exchanged suggestions and opinions in line with the current epidemiological situation about treatment of patients, abolition of the state of emergency, gradual return to work and restarting production, as well as opening borders," she said.Chinese Ambassador to Serbia Chen Bo congratulated the country on excellent response to COVID-19, adding that the joint battle against the pandemic strengthened ties between the two countries."The Chinese expert medical team to Serbia became a symbol of the friendship between our two countries," Chen said.Defense Minister Vulin thanked the Chinese experts for their help. "We learned from you as doctors, but also as human beings. You have demonstrated discipline, endurance and diligence," he said.The Chinese medical expert team has been assisting Serbia in fighting the COVID-19 since March 21. On May 6, Serbia lifted the state of emergency, and opened borders for passengers recently. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement