A medical staff member (L) collects a worker's throat swab sample at a COVID-19 nucleic acid testing facility set up temporarily on a construction site in Haidian District of Beijing, capital of China, June 26, 2020. More than 1,750 construction workers in Beijing received COVID-19 nucleic acid tests on Friday. (Xinhua/Ren Chao)Beijing had taken samples from 8.29 million of its residents as of Sunday, of which 7.68 million have completed nucleic acid testing, meaning 38.4 percent of the capital's total population have been tested.The capital has vowed to increase its nucleic testing capacity and round up all key testing groups as soon as possible, said Zhang Qiang, a deputy head of Beijing's special COVID-19 task force at a conference. According to Zhang, four key groups should be tested immediately: close contacts; that is, employees and neighbors, of Xinfadi market and Yuquandong market, as well as the sample collectors of Xinfadi market. The employees in the service sectors, such as beauty salons and restaurants, are also required to be tested.Six restaurants in Beijing have confirmed multiple COVID-19 cases, Pang Xinghuo, a deputy director of the municipal center for disease prevention and control, said at the press conference.To satisfy the city's demand for massive COVID-19 sample testing and ensure convenience to residents at the same time, Beijing also plans to deploy mobile equipment to collect samples, such as makeshift COVID-19 testing sites. More than 100,000 students, faculty and staff at Beijing's universities will have competed nucleic acid testing on Sunday, after a city-wide COVID-19 testing operation was conducted within 36 hours, involving 20 different medical institutions.As of Friday, a total of 1.65 million people received nucleic acid tests in Daxing district; and 12,350 out of the city's 26,286 tested beauty salons returned negative test results as of Friday night, media reported. The city also lowered the price for nucleic acid tests from 180 yuan ($26.8) to 120 yuan per person. Du Xing, an official from Beijing's health insurance bureau, said at the press conference that the medical expenses of those who require tests should be shouldered by government; whilst those who want to voluntarily complete the test should have to pay themselves. Beijing's officials said that the majority of people who tested positive for COVID-19 were under collective quarantine. Beijing's Fengtai district plans to conduct both nucleic acid tests and serum antibody tests on people under collective quarantine, said Chu Junwei, a deputy Party secretary of the district. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Beijing tests 100, 000 students and faculty in 36 hours Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement