The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) turned into a war zone on Tuesday, dominated by a huge fire and smoke, road barricades and fierce confrontation between rioters and police. Photo: WebHong Kong education authorities are requiring local new teachers to receive training in professional integrity and values in the first few years of their career, starting next school year.     The training has to cover at least 90 class hours in the first three years, including 30 class hours of core training provided by the education bureau covering teaching professional identity and professional learning, local media reported Thursday, citing a notice issued by the education bureau on Wednesday.   Under the teacher training plan, new teachers in Hong Kong also have to participate in at least 60 hours of elective courses depending on their personal career development. The plan aims to prompt Hong Kong teachers to reflect on their identity and explain local, national as well as international educational development to teachers, according to Hong Kong China News Agency.  The move came after a controversial question in the history examination of the Hong Kong college entrance examination in May drew criticism online. The question asked students whether Japan's invasion of China did more good than harm and was slammed by Chinese netizens as "intending to cultivate traitors".Incumbent teachers have to attend at least 30 hours of training on professional identity, values, integrity, and local, national as well as international educational development.  Teachers  have to finish 90 to 130 hours of training within five years before they are eligible for promotion. The education bureau has allowed a transition period of three years for the training plan. All those to be promoted before August 2023 can choose whether to get the promotion qualification according to the new plan or previous standards. Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hong Kong passes national anthem bill   HK politicians to propose correcting anti-mainland education at national two sessions Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement