People come to Fengtai Sports Center for COVID-19 nucleic acid tests on Sunday. Photo: Li Hao/GT  The community manager of a southern Beijing residential compound refuted earlier online reports that the lockdown of the area had resulted in food shortages for residents on Thursday, saying the community is taking residents' orders and delivering products to their doors. The response came after a post on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo by someone who claimed to be a resident of Tianjiaojunyuan compound, which is close to Xinfadi market. The post asserted that since a complete lockdown of the compound was imposed on June 13, residents have ordered food online but the service became inaccessible when nearby roads were  sealed.  Another resident at the compound told the Beijing News that the food shortage claims were not true. The village administering the compound delivers vegetables and daily necessities every three days. The vegetable package contains potatoes, tomatoes, cabbages, eggplants and onions and cost 50 yuan ($7) each, a resident surnamed Chen said. The community management office told media that due to a shortage of staff, they prioritize residents who have low food stocks over those who need other necessities. Some volunteers have also joined to provide the delivery services. District authorities are organizing trucks to transport vegetables to compounds, and the vegetables are packaged into 7.5-kilogram bags. Volunteers and community workers deliver the packages from the gate of the compound to each household, and residents pay via their smart phones, the community office said. The Beijing News — Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Beijing imposes new measures to prevent virus spreading to other cities Cities step up measures as new outbreak puts Beijing into 'soft lockdown' Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement