Iraqi security members have Iftar on a street in Baghdad, Iraq, on May 5, 2020. Earlier in April, the Iraqi authorities decided to partially lift the curfew from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. between April 21 and May 22 except for Friday and Saturday, which covers most of the holy month of Ramadan starting from April 24. The Iraqi Health Ministry on Tuesday confirmed four more deaths and 85 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of infections to 2,431 in the country. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)A rocket attack late Saturday north of Baghdad hit an Iraqi base but missed US-led coalition troops stationed there, Iraq's military and a coalition official said.A statement from Iraq's security forces said the rockets were launched north of Baghdad and did not cause any damage to the Taji base. A coalition official confirmed the projectiles fell outside the coalition's segment of the base. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. It was the third attack in a week to target US troops or diplomats.Two rockets struck the grounds of the vast Baghdad airport complex on Monday and an unguided rocket hit close to the fortified US embassy two days later. The attacks follow several weeks of relative respite from more than two dozen similar incidents in recent months. Since October, at least 30 attacks have targeted American troops or diplomats, severely straining ties between Baghdad and Washington.Tensions reached boiling point in January when the US killed Iranian general Qasem Soleimani and Iraqi commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis in a drone strike in Baghdad.Washington has accused armed groups backed by Iran, Iraq's powerful neighbor and the US' top regional foe, for the repeated rocket attacks. But it also blamed the Iraqi government for not doing enough to protect US installations.Washington and Baghdad are hoping for a reset after launching a strategic dialogue this week that aims to better define their military, economic and cultural relationship. As part of the talks, the US pledged to continue reducing in-country troop levels, which numbered about 5,200 in 2019.Iraq, meanwhile, vowed to "protect the military personnel" operating on its territory as part of the US-led coalition fighting remnants of the Islamic State jihadist group.AFP 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Spotlight: Iraq, US launch strategic dialogue to discuss future of U.S. troops, bilateral ties Farmers harvest watermelons in suburb of Baghdad, Iraq Security forces launch major anti-IS offensive in Iraq Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement