A security officer looks at a scanning screen for checking passengers' temperature at the Istanbul Airport in Istanbul, Turkey, on June 9, 2020. Technology and innovation will top the precautions of Turkey's biggest airport Istanbul Airport against the COVID-19 in the post-pandemic era, according to the management of the airport. The management on Tuesday presented their final preparations and measures taken against coronavirus while Turkish airline companies are preparing to resume their international operations the next day. (Photo by Yasin Akgul/Xinhua)  

A security officer looks at a scanning screen for checking passengers' temperature at the Istanbul Airport in Istanbul, Turkey, on June 9, 2020. Technology and innovation will top the precautions of Turkey's biggest airport Istanbul Airport against the COVID-19 in the post-pandemic era, according to the management of the airport. The management on Tuesday presented their final preparations and measures taken against coronavirus while Turkish airline companies are preparing to resume their international operations the next day. (Photo by Yasin Akgul/Xinhua)   Technology and innovation will top the precautions of Turkey's biggest airport Istanbul Airport against the COVID-19 in the post-pandemic era, according to the management of the airport.The management on Tuesday presented their final preparations and measures taken against coronavirus while Turkish airline companies are preparing to resume their international operations the next day."We are ready... We have taken every measure against the COVID-19 pandemic in all areas from airport access to boarding gates for a healthy and safe travel experience," an official told Xinhua.The sterilization activities would begin before entering into the terminal, with the use of specific sanitization mats to disinfect shoes.New ultraviolet-based tunnels would also disinfect security trays and baggage to ensure that the viruses do not stay on the surface.Through the sensors installed at several locations, people who violate the 1.5-meter social distance rule would be automatically warned.Additionally, passengers can easily obtain masks and hand sanitizers from hygiene-automats located in almost every corner in the terminal.Airport personnel also started to use new high-tech smart screening helmets, which are equipped with thermo-scan sensors.

An employee wearing a thermal imaging VF helmet monitors people at the Istanbul Airport in Istanbul, Turkey, on June 9, 2020. Technology and innovation will top the precautions of Turkey's biggest airport Istanbul Airport against the COVID-19 in the post-pandemic era, according to the management of the airport. The management on Tuesday presented their final preparations and measures taken against coronavirus while Turkish airline companies are preparing to resume their international operations the next day. (Photo by Yasin Akgul/Xinhua) 

An employee wearing a thermal imaging VF helmet monitors people at the Istanbul Airport in Istanbul, Turkey, on June 9, 2020. Technology and innovation will top the precautions of Turkey's biggest airport Istanbul Airport against the COVID-19 in the post-pandemic era, according to the management of the airport. The management on Tuesday presented their final preparations and measures taken against coronavirus while Turkish airline companies are preparing to resume their international operations the next day. (Photo by Yasin Akgul/Xinhua) The helmets automatically take the temperatures of passengers and staff of the terminal, matching each measurement with the personalized "QR" code produced through face recognition devices and mobile phones."So that those with fever would be diverted to healthcare centers inside the terminal," the official continued.Within the scope of the measures, information boards about coronavirus were placed in certain areas in the terminal, continuously notifying people about the rules that they should obey.Turkey's national flag carrier Turkish Airlines earlier announced that it would start flying to a couple of countries, including Greece, Bulgaria, Bahrain, and Qatar on June 10 from Istanbul.Turkey is expected to gradually increase the number of its international flights to 40 countries in the upcoming days in June. 

A vending machine for selling protective products is seen at the Istanbul Airport in Istanbul, Turkey, on June 9, 2020. Technology and innovation will top the precautions of Turkey's biggest airport Istanbul Airport against the COVID-19 in the post-pandemic era, according to the management of the airport. The management on Tuesday presented their final preparations and measures taken against coronavirus while Turkish airline companies are preparing to resume their international operations the next day. (Photo by Yasin Akgul/Xinhua) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement