File Photo: Xinhua A source told the Global Times on Friday that Chinese and Indian border troops are conducting multi-level meetings on the ground to promote the implementation of a high-level consensus and to bring divergences under control at the frontline. The source believes the current situation at the China-India border is generally stable and controllable. The two sides recently held commander-level talks to find a resolution to recent border tensions. The communications through diplomatic and military channels were close and smooth, the source said. As the world’s two largest developing economies, both China and India face the task of pushing forward domestic developments, in addition to current priorities concerning combating coronavirus outbreaks and protecting people’s lives and health. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a press conference on Wednesday that China and India have taken steps to reduce tensions along the border in accordance with the consensus they reached. She also said earlier on Monday that the militaries of China and India on Saturday held army commander-level talks on a resolution of recent border tensions and maintaining peace and tranquility in the border regions. Both sides have been maintaining close contact over the current situation through diplomatic and military channels, and have reached a consensus that the dispute should not escalate to a conflict. Peace and tranquility in border areas should be maintained and a good atmosphere for the stable development of healthy bilateral relations should be created, according to the spokesperson. The Indian Express reported that Indian and Chinese troops have gradually begun moving back from "standoff positions." China-India border tensions have flared up recently after India illegally constructed defense facilities in Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, and Chinese border defense troops countered the move with increased border control measures. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Eased border tensions bring China-India economic relations back to crossroads China-India border talks prevent another 'Doklam standoff' Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement