Aerial photo taken on May 13, 2020 shows people visiting a tea garden in Xiaoqiao Town of Jian'ou City, southeast China's Fujian Province. East China's Fujian Province exported more than 7,726 tonnes of tea in the first four months of the year, a rise of 8.7 percent year on year, local customs authority said Tuesday. The exports, worth about 135 million U.S. dollars, were mainly oolong tea, green tea and black tea. Fujian is a major tea production base in China, with the locally produced oolong tea, green tea, black tea and jasmine tea especially popular at home and abroad. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) 

A worker processes flower tea in a company in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, May 30, 2020. East China's Fujian Province exported more than 7,726 tonnes of tea in the first four months of the year, a rise of 8.7 percent year on year, local customs authority said Tuesday. The exports, worth about 135 million U.S. dollars, were mainly oolong tea, green tea and black tea. Fujian is a major tea production base in China, with the locally produced oolong tea, green tea, black tea and jasmine tea especially popular at home and abroad. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) 

Workers process flower tea in a company in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, May 30, 2020. East China's Fujian Province exported more than 7,726 tonnes of tea in the first four months of the year, a rise of 8.7 percent year on year, local customs authority said Tuesday. The exports, worth about 135 million U.S. dollars, were mainly oolong tea, green tea and black tea. Fujian is a major tea production base in China, with the locally produced oolong tea, green tea, black tea and jasmine tea especially popular at home and abroad. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan) 

Aerial photo taken on April 29, 2020 shows a tea garden in Xuefeng Town of Minhou County, southeast China's Fujian Province. East China's Fujian Province exported more than 7,726 tonnes of tea in the first four months of the year, a rise of 8.7 percent year on year, local customs authority said Tuesday. The exports, worth about 135 million U.S. dollars, were mainly oolong tea, green tea and black tea. Fujian is a major tea production base in China, with the locally produced oolong tea, green tea, black tea and jasmine tea especially popular at home and abroad. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan)East China's Fujian Province exported more than 7,726 tonnes of tea in the first four months of the year, a rise of 8.7 percent year on year, local customs authority said Tuesday.The exports, worth about 135 million U.S. dollars, were mainly oolong tea, green tea and black tea.Japan was the top destination, with the export volume surpassing 2,594 tonnes, rising 6.8 percent year on year. About 2,315 tonnes of tea was sold to the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) member states, 28.8 percent more than that of the same period of last year, according to Fuzhou Customs.Private enterprises in Fujian led the growth of tea exports during the period, registering cumulative exports of 5,094.8 tonnes, up 24.2 percent year on year, it said.Fujian is a major tea production base in China, with the locally produced oolong tea, green tea, black tea and jasmine tea especially popular at home and abroad. Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik