Illustration: Liu Rui/GTTikTok is already hanging by a thread in the US. President Donald Trump said on Friday that TikTok could be banned as early as Saturday local time. That puts even more pressure on Bytedance, TikTok's Chinese parent company, to negotiate with Microsoft - making it even harder for the Chinese company to hold on to a small stake or sell for more money. This is indeed the hunting and looting of TikTok by the US government in conjunction with US high-tech companies. It could be days before the final verdict is out.National security, in its narrow sense, is certainly not the most important consideration for the US. The real issue that truly concerns Washington is the ability of Huawei and TikTok to challenge the high-tech hegemony of the US. If this is also national security, then US national security is synonymous with hegemony.We can clearly see the ugliness from the US government to the relevant high-tech giants. One of the companies hardest impacted by TikTok has been Facebook. Its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, became the most public and aggressive promoter of TikTok's demise in the US tech industry. After wooing the Chinese side in order to get Facebook into the Chinese market, Zuckerberg has completely changed his face. He has declared that he has "ample evidence" that the Chinese side conducted theft of US technology when the CEOs of three other US internet giants declined to confirm that. This man's willingness to set aside morality for profit shows the true face of US capitalism.China has never banned US high-tech companies from doing business in the country. What the Chinese government demands is that what they do in China should comply with Chinese law. That's all. It was some US companies that refused to comply with Chinese laws. Google used to have a position in the Chinese market. It itself pulled out of China a decade ago, while other companies were accused in the US of kowtowing to China when they tried to design their specific versions for the Chinese market. This leaves no US internet giant currently operating in China.TikTok operates in the US in full compliance with US laws and is completely cut off from Douyin, its Chinese equivalent. Users in the Chinese mainland cannot register for TikTok even if they bypass the so-called great firewall. In other words, TikTok does not violate any US law but fully cooperates with the US administration. The US claim that it threatens its own national security is a purely hypothetical and unwarranted charge - just like the groundless assumption that Huawei gathers intelligence for the Chinese government. This is fundamentally different from China's refusal to allow the original versions of Facebook and Twitter to enter China and require them to operate in accordance with Chinese laws.China is truly safeguarding national security in its conventional sense. We require US companies to store Chinese users' information on the servers located in China and require them to manage content posted on their platforms in accordance with Chinese law. This is the inevitable logic of China's law-based internet governance. The US wants to ban TikTok. But which US law has it violated? What US regulation has it not cooperated with? What kind of factual basis does the US have for the accusation against TikTok? When the US is not able to answer these questions, what kind of axioms and morals can really be put on the table for the uprooting of TikTok?This is the barbaric act of a rogue government, and yet another dark scene in Washington's struggle for US supremacy. The idea of hegemony as national security enforced beyond the laws and commercial rules is the nature of the hunt against TikTok that we see today.In the most barbaric way, the US is trying to solidify a high-tech world order in which it is the absolute center. Whether it ends up "killing" TikTok or forcibly taking the child out of Bytedance's arms, it is one of the ugliest scenes of the 21st century in the high-tech competition.Finally, I want to say that it is a reality that when TikTok is being hunted in the US, there are very few countermeasures the Chinese side can take. China's overall strength is still inferior to that of the US. This is the fundamental reason why the US has the audacity to target specific Chinese companies. The Chinese companies striving in the international market are the pioneers who help China grow through reform and opening-up. Some of them are wronged. They have had setbacks. But these are periodic difficulties. I hope the companies don't get discouraged. I hope the Chinese people don't get discouraged, either. Let us all be more united and more rational. Doers are more resilient in the face of difficulties. To be strong enough to lift the stones is the only way for those who are willing to do great things in this age.The author is editor-in-chief of the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  TikTok US says it's 'not going anywhere' in face of pending US ban Voice: By banning TikTok, US is protecting market monopoly   US targets TikTok's global soft power Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement