New housing prices in China's four first-tier cities increased 0.2 percent month-on-month in March,compared with a flat performance in the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics said. Photo:cnsphotoChina's rental market for commercial properties has stabilized as the economy recovers from COVID-19, but the vacancy rate remains high, several real estate consulting firms have said. According to media reports, the rental market for commercial property began to stabilize in the second quarter of the year, leading a rebound in demand compared to the first quarter. The net absorption rate statistics (indicating the total number of rented properties less surrendered tenancies), from 18 major cities in China turned positive in the second quarter, according to statistics from the CBRE Group. Demand for grade-A office buildings showed the fastest rebound, with net absorption recovering to around 70 percent of that in the previous year. Enquiries and building viewings have now reached pre-COVID-19 levels, the report said, but most tenants chose to stay with their lease out of an abundance of caution of a short-term economy and business outlook. Companies in online education and finance demonstrated a strong rebound, with tenancy of online education companies registering up to 200,000 square meters of trade volume.However, high vacancy rates remain a challenge to the sector. According to statistics from CBRE Group, vacancy rates in the four top tier cities, namely Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, are all up in the first half of this year, rising to 16.2 percent, 20.9 percent, 6.7 percent and 25.4 percent respectively. The high vacancy rate is driven by sluggish market demand and rising supply. In Beijing, a total of 362,000 square meters of commercial space was added to the market pool, elevating the total vacancy rate in the city. In the second half of this year, another 700,000 square meters of commercial space will be added to Beijing, Colliers International said. Paired with neutral demand, the rising supply will drive the vacancy to its peak at 20.7 percent in Beijing in 2021.In order to push up occupancy rates, property owners and the operators of the commercial buildings have had to scale down rents. According to statistics from Cushman & Wakefield, commercial building rents in Beijing dropped 7.6 percent in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year, dropping to 358.5 yuan ($52.33) per square meter. Shanghai's commercial building rentals dropped 6.3 percent and Shenzhen's 13.6 percent. "Apart from cutting rent, many property owners are refurnishing their buildings in a bid to remain competitive," Jia Fan, founder of Beeplus said. "Some are offering more flexible office spaces and more convenient facilities to pull up the occupancy rate."According to Jia, the mid- and long-term outlook of China's commercial property market remains robust, and will benefit from opportunities created by China's rapid economic development and transformation. Amid rising supply, competition will remain high for commercial property developers."Despite these challenges, forward-thinking investors will look more at the long-term market trends," Wang Gang, head of capital markets in China from JLL said. "Investors are continuing to focus on core areas, and prefer upgraded properties with high value-added potential," Wang added. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Housing market rises in certain parts of China, but insiders worry about potential capital distraction amid stock frenzy Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik