Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Carrie Lam announces the postponement of the 2020 Legislative Council (LegCo) General Election of the HKSAR due to the current COVID-19 outbreak, July 31, 2020.Photo:Xinhua Hong Kong will provide free coronavirus tests for its 7.5 million residents taken on a voluntary basis starting in two weeks' time in collaboration with the central government, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor announced on Friday, as the city has been hit by a third wave of coronavirus cases, the worst so far. Under the universal testing plan, each resident will be able to take one free testing voluntarily, Lam said at a press conference. The COVID-19 epidemic situation in Hong Kong is still severe, as the number of confirmed cases in July witnessed a sharp increase, while the sources of 40 percent of the cases remain unknown, Lam said. She warned that Hong Kong may still face a coronavirus rebound in the winter, and there is a need to improve the testing capacity and build more treatment centers. Lam's announcement came after the central government's decision to send two teams to the city to  help curb the third wave of the coronavirus epidemic. Lam said one team of 60 members has already arrived to increase the city's COVID-19 testing capacity and another team will soon arrive to build the makeshift fangcang hospital. Three Chinese mainland-linked laboratories—BGI, Kingmed and Hong Kong Molecular—will help the city improve its testing capacity, and a Fire Eye lab for COVID-19 testing will be built at Sun Yat-sen Memorial Park, according to Lam. Addressing some privacy concerns, Lam said the universal citywide coronavirus tests in Hong Kong will ensure the protection of personal data, as the labs will not be given any personal info apart from that needed for the test. Some rumors had suggested that the DNA of Hong Kong residents could be transported to the Chinese mainland after residents were informed that mainland experts arrived in the city. In addition to helping the city improve its testing capacity, the central government will help Hong Kong build a 1,000-bed makeshift hospital in the AsiaWorld-Expo and a Hong Kong version of Huoshenshan hospital outside the AsiaWorld-Expo, Lam said. Global Times Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement