Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi (L) touches elbows with Laurent Fabius, president of France's Constitutional Council, in Paris, France, on Aug. 29, 2020. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)The fundamental disagreements between China and the US are not about power, international status or social systems, but about whether to support multilateralism or unilateralism, and advocate win-win cooperation or a zero-sum game. It is clear to the world that the US is now on the wrong side of history, said Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi at the French Institute for International Relations (IFRI) conference in Paris on Sunday (French time) during his week-long visit to Europe. "China never wants to fight a 'new cold war' with anyone, and there cannot be a 'cold war' in the era of globalization, as it is impossible to divide the world into two or three camps when all countries have become an interconnected community of shared interests," he said. Wang's statement was made in response to a question that Thierry de Montbrial, Chairman of the IFRI, raised about how China will avoid a "new cold war" with the US, since China supports multilateralism while the US might continue to refuse to risk losing its world dominance, regardless of the outcome of its presidential elections. "China's view is clear - all countries are equal members of the international community and have the right to their own development. We congratulate the US on its development. But at the same time, China, along with other emerging economies and developing countries, also has the right to develop and create happy lives for its people," Wang said. He noted that China always advocates and believes that the world is moving toward multi-polarity in international relations, as a healthy and stable world should not be ruled by just one or two countries. On current China-US relations, Wang pointed out that the US is on the wrong side of history. "US diplomacy seems to be reduced to only unilateral sanctions and smear campaigns, to which China must make the necessary response by making the facts clear to dismiss the country's groundless accusations," Wang said, noting that China has the right to do so as a sovereign country to not only safeguard its national interests and dignity, but also to uphold basic norms in international relations."China's door to a dialogue with the US is wide open. We are ready to have candid and in-depth exchange of views with the US side on issues of converging interests," he said.  China also welcomes the constructive role that European countries, including France, can play in easing the current tensions between China and the US and expect to see that Europe's adherence to a strategic independence will provide stability to a world with plenty of uncertainties. Wang on Friday (French time) met with French President Emmanuel Macron during his ongoing European tour. His Europe visit started on Tuesday and has already brought him to Italy, the Netherlands and Norway.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Wang Yi: Anyone who challenges one-China principle will pay 'heavy price'  China, France vow to uphold multilateralism Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement