Chris Tang Ping-keung, Commissioner of Police of the Hong Kong Police. Photo: screenshot of an exclusive interview with Global TimesThe commissioner of police of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), Chris Tang Ping-keung, said that the police force will spare no efforts in investigating acts and activities that endanger national security and enhance communication with its counterparts in the Chinese mainland, as the social unrest in 2019 has united the Hong Kong police force more than ever. "Hong Kong police have arrested more than 20 people suspected of violating the national security law for HKSAR since it came into force… Hong Kong police have the confidence to meet all challenges and effectively safeguard public order in Hong Kong and national security," Tang told Xinhua News Agency in a recent interview. The department for safeguarding national security of the Hong Kong Police Force was established on July 1, right after the enactment of the national security law for Hong Kong on June 30. The department is broadly divided into three parts, intelligence gathering, investigations and operations, and training and logistical support, said Tang, noting that the department's responsibilities include collecting and analyzing intelligence on acts endangering national security, conducting investigations and other related operations. "When there is sufficient evidence, the police will take further action," said Tang. It has been about two months since the enactment of the national security law for Hong Kong, which Tang sees as a strong deterrence, as violence and illegal demonstrations have virtually gone to zero. At the same time, quite a few rioters got flustered and some claimed to have  cut ties with violence and others have fled.Hong Kong police officers have made tremendous sacrifices to maintain social stability and peace. Some officers have had their personal details leaked, some have given up their holidays to stay on the frontline, and some have been injured in law enforcement actions."I am proud of my colleagues' performance," said Tang. "After the social unrest in 2019, we have become more united and confident in overcoming any challenge."Tang noted that they have gained a great deal of experience in operational strategy and use of equipment in dealing with the unrest last year, as the police force had never before dealt with such a huge breach of public safety. At the same time, the police have become more aware that only by clarifying rumors in a timely manner can the public's misunderstandings be eliminated. According to Xinhua, the Hong Kong Police Force is in close contact with the mainland. Tang said that hundreds of senior and junior officers have travelled to the mainland for exchanges, visits and study.Tang revealed that there will be more exchanges between the mainland and Hong Kong police forces after the COVID-19 epidemic in Hong Kong is contained. "We attach great importance to studying and communicating in the mainland, and hope our colleagues can have a more comprehensive and in-depth understanding of the country through the mainland visits."Responding to the announcement by some countries that they would consider suspending some exchanges with the Hong Kong Police force, Tang said that the force has communicated with many countries around the world, and unfriendly acts from some countries would not have much of an impact on them. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Hong Kong police seeking 6 fugitives, to uphold national security Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement