The logo of TikTok application is seen on a screen in this picture illustration taken February 21, 2019. Photo: VCGChina's Foreign Ministry Tuesday called the US crackdown on TikTok pure "political manipulation" basedmon fabricated accusations and warned the US to not open a "Pandora's box" or the US will suffer the consequences.It is not uncommon for the US to throw its state power to crackdown on the enterprises of other countries. If this mistake of the US is followed, any country can take similar measures against any US company on the grounds of national security, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said during a regular press briefing on Tuesday."The US must not open Pandora's box, otherwise it will suffer the consequences," Wang said.  Wang's comment came after US President Donald Trump said Monday that the popular video-sharing app TikTok, owned by Chinese internet firm ByteDance, had until September 15 to find a US buyer or else face a ban.TikTok focuses on overseas markets and is popular in many places. However, due to its Chinese background, TikTok has been under tremendous pressure in important markets such as India and the US.The US uses so-called national security as a reason for suppressing companies, and this is "groundless," as it is just looking for excuses for itself, Wang said. Companies carry out commercial activities in the US in accordance with market principles and international rules, and abide by US laws and regulations, but the government has imposed restrictions and undertaken a crackdown. This is complete "political manipulation," Wang said. Wang added that for some time, the US has generalized the concept of national security, abused national power and unreasonably suppressed certain non-US companies without any evidence. "This violates the principles of the market economy and the WTO's principles of openness, transparency and non-discrimination. It is naked bullying. China firmly opposes this," Wang added. We call on the US to listen carefully to the voices of its own country and the international community, refrain from politicizing economic issues and provide an open, fair and non-discriminatory investment for all market players in the US, Wang noted.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China warns of ‘consequences’ for US over TikTok crackdown Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik