A protective mask is seen beside a map of famous Parisian tourist spots in Paris, France, Aug. 4, 2020. Amid signs of the epidemic resurgence, Paris is considering ordering people to wear masks in busy outdoor public spaces after the government authorized local authorities to toughen rule to contain coronavirus circulation during summer holidays. Parisians and visitors will have to wear a mask when they stroll along the banks of the Seine, visit the capital's open-air markets or main tourist spots. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)Amid signs of the epidemic resurgence, Paris is considering ordering people to wear masks in busy outdoor public spaces after the government authorized local authorities to toughen rule to contain coronavirus circulation during summer holidays. "Wearing a mask is unpleasant, especially in hot weather, but it is really a necessary gesture as the epidemic resurges," said Anne Souyris, deputy mayor of Paris in charge of health issues. "We are therefore going to ask that it become mandatory in outdoor places where there are a lot of people and where keeping the distance of one meter is difficult," she told national daily Le Monde on Tuesday. Parisians and visitors will have to wear a mask when they stroll along the banks of the Seine, visit the capital's open-air markets or main tourist spots. In Toulouse, France's fourth-largest city, starting from Wednesday any person older than 10 years must come out with a mask in "places where barrier measures are poorly respected." "This new measure, although binding, have the sole purpose of further protecting the people... against the spread of the epidemic," Jean-Luc Moudenc, Toulouse mayor, told le Figaro newspaper. Amidst fears of a second pandemic wave, a number of cities in France, including Lille, Nice and La Mayenne, have made mask-wearing compulsory in busy pedestrian streets and uncovered markets in addition to tourist spots. The new anti-coronavirus rule coincided with an alarming report issued by the country's scientific council, which pointed that a second wave was "highly likely" this autumn or winter unless people avoid social mixing and respect barrier gestures. "The virus is circulating actively with an increased absence of distancing and barrier measures: the balance is fragile and we can switch at any time to a less controlled scenario like in Spain," the council said. "The short-term future of the pandemic mainly lies in the hands of the population," it added. The advisory body asked authorities to anticipate all the possible scenarios and prepare "prevention plans" for the country's most populated metropolitan areas, and to consider local lockdown according to the epidemic situation. It also recommended better access to tests to rapidly trace and isolate cases, as well as stricter control on travelers arriving from countries "at risk." Since the epidemic outbreak, 192,334 people in France have tested positive for the COVID-19, with a single-day rise of 1,039 on Tuesday, higher than 556 registered a day before, the Health Ministry said. In a visit to the Mediterranean city of Toulon early Tuesday, President Emmanuel Macron recalled "the importance of remaining vigilant in this period of coronavirus." "It's important to continue to respect guidelines against kissing and shaking hands, to wear masks, wash your hands with antibacterial gel, and be careful when the grandchildren come to visit, because the virus is still circulating in our country," Macron said after meeting social workers looking after old people. On Monday, Prime Minister Jean Castex gave the same alert, urging French citizens not to "let down the guard." 

A poster reading "This summer I wear a mask when I go out" is seen in Clichy, next to Paris, France, Aug. 4, 2020. Amid signs of the epidemic resurgence, Paris is considering ordering people to wear masks in busy outdoor public spaces after the government authorized local authorities to toughen rule to contain coronavirus circulation during summer holidays. Parisians and visitors will have to wear a mask when they stroll along the banks of the Seine, visit the capital's open-air markets or main tourist spots. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

A protective mask is seen beside an Eiffel Tower paper model in Paris, France, Aug. 4, 2020. Amid signs of the epidemic resurgence, Paris is considering ordering people to wear masks in busy outdoor public spaces after the government authorized local authorities to toughen rule to contain coronavirus circulation during summer holidays. Parisians and visitors will have to wear a mask when they stroll along the banks of the Seine, visit the capital's open-air markets or main tourist spots. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

A man walks past a poster reading "This summer I wear a mask when I go out" in Clichy, next to Paris, France, Aug. 4, 2020. Amid signs of the epidemic resurgence, Paris is considering ordering people to wear masks in busy outdoor public spaces after the government authorized local authorities to toughen rule to contain coronavirus circulation during summer holidays. Parisians and visitors will have to wear a mask when they stroll along the banks of the Seine, visit the capital's open-air markets or main tourist spots. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement