A Palestinian health worker measures the body temperature of a woman at Al Amal hospital, in the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, on Aug. 28, 2020. Palestine recorded two deaths and 724 new COVID-19 cases in the Palestinian territories in the last 24 hours, a senior Palestinian official announced on Friday. (Photo by Yasser Qudih/Xinhua)Palestine recorded two deaths and 724 new COVID-19 cases in the Palestinian territories in the last 24 hours, a senior Palestinian official announced on Friday."Since the outbreak of the disease in Palestine in March, the health ministry recorded 28,110 cases, including 160 deaths, 18,983 recoveries, and 8,967 under medical care," Palestinian Minister of Health Mai al-Kaila said in a statement sent to Xinhua.

A Palestinian health worker wearing protective gear prepares an ambulance to transfer COVID-19 patients outside Al Amal hospital, in the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, on Aug. 28, 2020. Palestine recorded two deaths and 724 new COVID-19 cases in the Palestinian territories in the last 24 hours, a senior Palestinian official announced on Friday. (Photo by Yasser Qudih/Xinhua) The new cases were recorded in the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip in the last 24 hours, she said."This figure is the highest single-day rise since the outbreak of the disease in the Palestinian territories in March," said al-Kaila, adding that the two deaths are from East Jerusalem and Nablus in northern West Bank.In Gaza, a committee that comprises national and Islamic factions called on the Gaza Strip's people to abide by the precautionary measures to avoid infection.The committee called on the United Nations to speed up activating the emergency plan of food distribution and provide it to the Palestinian refugees, who live in eight densely populated refugee camps in the Gaza Strip.

Palestinian health workers wearing protective gear prepare to transfer COVID-19 patients outside Al Amal hospital, in the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Younis, on Aug. 28, 2020. Palestine recorded two deaths and 724 new COVID-19 cases in the Palestinian territories in the last 24 hours, a senior Palestinian official announced on Friday. (Photo by Yasser Qudih/Xinhua) In a press statement, it also said that it calls on the UN and the international community to exert pressure on Israel to end more than 13 years of a blockade imposed on the Gaza Strip since June 2007.

A Palestinian boy sells cleaning tools and disinfectants in Gaza City, Aug. 28, 2020. Palestine recorded two deaths and 724 new COVID-19 cases in the Palestinian territories in the last 24 hours, a senior Palestinian official announced on Friday. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)  Meanwhile, a lockdown in all the Gaza Strip is still valid, where all educational, financial, and commercial establishments and stores remain closed. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement