People look at zebras at the Los Angeles Zoo in Los Angeles, the United States, on Aug. 26, 2020. The Los Angeles Zoo reopened to the public on Wednesday with health precautions in place after being closed for 166 days due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua) The Los Angeles Zoo reopened to the public on Wednesday with health precautions in place after being closed for 166 days due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The closure was the longest in the zoo's history. "We can't wait to see you again," the zoo wrote on its website, noting that for the safety of guests, staff, and animals, the zoo experience has been modified, and advance, timed-entry reservations are required for all. 

People look at zebras at the Los Angeles Zoo in Los Angeles, the United States, on Aug. 26, 2020. The Los Angeles Zoo reopened to the public on Wednesday with health precautions in place after being closed for 166 days due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua)  All guests must reserve timed tickets online before visiting and ticket quantities are limited each hour, in order to promote physical distancing and optimal safety, according to the guidelines announced by the zoo. All adults and children two years and older are required to wear a protective face covering while visiting the zoo. The zoo said it has implemented enhanced cleaning procedures for high-contact surfaces and restrooms while hand sanitizer stations are available at Safari Shuttle stops, food facilities, and other locations throughout the zoo. 

A sign reminding people to practice physical distancing is seen at the Los Angeles Zoo in Los Angeles, the United States, on Aug. 26, 2020. The Los Angeles Zoo reopened to the public on Wednesday with health precautions in place after being closed for 166 days due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua) Zoo officials stated that they are taking every precaution to ensure the safety of animals and staff. Guests will have restricted access to animals considered at high risk. Because many of the zoo's exhibits allow close up viewing of the animals, some areas will have barriers that keep guests at a greater viewing distance than usual. Staff is required to take enhanced safety precautions when working around animals at risk of contracting coronavirus, according to the zoo. "The world has changed over the last several months, and so has your Los Angeles Zoo. You will notice enhanced protocols and procedures onsite to ensure the health and safety of all guests, staff and animals," said Denise M. Verret, CEO & zoo director of the Los Angeles Zoo, in a statement last week. 

People wearing face masks look at giraffes at the Los Angeles Zoo in Los Angeles, the United States, on Aug. 26, 2020. The Los Angeles Zoo reopened to the public on Wednesday with health precautions in place after being closed for 166 days due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. (Xinhua) "We are thrilled to be able to yet again provide our community with an outdoor, enriching experience that connects people with nature and the animals in our care," Verret noted. The zoo, home to a diverse collection of 1,400 animals representing 270 different species, was closed on March 13 in response to the spread of COVID-19. The 133-acre zoo attracts more than 1.8 million visitors each year. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement