Fu Diqun Photo: Courtesy of Yadi Media

Zhou Yan Photo: Courtesy of Yadi MediaA new show Way to Happiness debuted on Chinese streaming site Youku on Wednesday night, with thousands later joining discussions about psychology on social media platforms like Sina Weibo. A new attempt to touch upon the topic of psychology, the show produced by Yadi Media and Youku aims to raise questions about happiness and teach viewers how to view troubles and problems from a positive angle. Tackling some of the most anxiety-causing issues of today, the show invites ordinary people to take part in classic psychological experiments, which are then discussed. The six-episode show opened with discussions on love, marriage and money presented in a documentary format about psychological experiments.  Zhou Yan, chief content officer from Yadi Media, said that she would prefer not to call the series a show because in it everyone is just being himself or herself. "It is worth trying to present true and real events to audiences," she added. According to Fu Diqun, CEO of Yadi, statistics show that China is the second largest economy in terms of GDP, while it only ranked No.93 on the World Happiness Report 2019. It seems that Chinese people are experiencing an age of national anxiety. "How to relieve that anxiety and gain happiness is just what science can do," she said.  In the view of Peng Kaiping, a professor from Tsinghua University, the Way to Happiness is the first program to promote positive mindset systematically and scientifically. "Happiness is a universal topic, which all humans discuss," said Peng, who is also a guest on the show.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Popular crosstalk club to debut reality TV series on Tencent Video Video recaps pose major challenge for TV drama producers Taiwan's ban on mainland net TV service aimed at pleasing US: observers Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement