A Chinese doctor communicates with a local doctor at the Hulhumale Hospital, Maldives, Jan. 12, 2020. Photo: Xinhua Former president of the Maldives Maumoon Abdul Gayoom has been tested positive for COVID-19 as the country's total case count edged past 7,000, local media reported here Wednesday. Gayoom, who ruled the Maldives from 1978 to 2008, announced on Twitter on Tuesday night that he has been tested positive for the COVID-19 virus. He prayed for a swift recovery of all those infected by the virus. The 82-year-old veteran politician received treatment for an unrelated illness earlier this year and continued to participate in local politics as leader of the Maldives Reform Movement which is part of a coalition with the ruling government. According to the Health Protection Agency (HPA), 135 new people, including 109 Maldivian citizens and 26 foreign nationals, tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, pushing the country's total case count up to 7,047. HPA data showed that Maldives now has 2,580 active cases of COVID-19 spread across 32 inhabited islands and 10 resorts. Active cases include nine tourists and 23 resort staff. Meanwhile, 4,439 patients have recovered from the COVID-19 virus, and 1,460 individuals have been placed in isolation facilities. So far 28 deaths have been recorded due to the virus. The Maldives saw a surge in cases following the opening up of its borders to foreign visitors on July 15. On average, more than 100 new cases have been reported every day in August, the majority being local citizens. Authorities have reinforced a range of social distancing measures, including making the wearing of face masks mandatory in public and enforcing curfews and restrictions on vehicular movement. Local businesses have been fined or temporarily closed down for not adhering to health protocols. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement