File Photo: Xinhua A few top US universities, including Harvard University, the University of Pennsylvania and Amherst College, are reportedly encouraging their students to use aliases when discussing political topics regarding Hong Kong and its national security law. However, some students and a solicitor from the Supreme Court of HK have called their decision a sign of over-reaction. A student at Harvard confirmed with the Global Times that Harvard is encouraging students to go anonymous in discussions over Hong Kong, a measure not seen in previous semesters. However, the student finds the policy to be an over-reaction. “I don’t think extreme speech has been around in our class discussions before. There were different ideas, but all were friendly and legal.”Avery Goldstein, a professor in the political science department at the University of Pennsylvania, confirmed with the Global Times that he plans to send out his syllabus while flagging that it may contain sensitive content.Kerry Ratigan, an assistant professor of political science at Amherst College, said she is considering anonymous discussions as an option despite never having adopted this method before. Dr. Ratigan denied that her decision is a direct result of the national security law for Hong Kong in an email reply to the Global Times. Kennedy Wong Ying-ho, a solicitor of the Supreme Court of Hong Kong, believes that the US professors are over-reacting. “The national security law never banned academic discussions,” Wong told the Global Times, “Students and professors are welcome to discuss and comment on controversies and possibilities of the law and HKSAR.”“There is one thing for sure—unless somebody is planning to use academic discussion as a disguise, and instead collude with anti-China activists in Hong Kong to incite social movements that undermine national security, the US universities have nothing to worry about regarding the national security law’s influence on academic independence,” Wong noted. A student majoring in international relations at New York University also called certain measures “unnecessary”. “People tend to say horrible things when they use anonymous identities, as they do not take responsibility for what they say,” he added.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  National security law ensures high degree of autonomy and people's freedom in HK: Liu Xiaoming Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement