Photo: Xie Wenting/GTSpinning a handheld prayer wheel, elderly people piously practiced their religion at a nursing home in Dingqing country, Qamdo, Southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region on Wednesday. Dressed in traditional Tibet clothing, they sat in two rows while quietly reciting prayers. While they cannot speak Putonghua, their kindness was clear when they greeted outsiders who arrived with amicable, welcoming gestures.Different from most elderly nursing homes in other places, this one provides quality services free of charge. The home began operation in 2015 and occupies an area of 13,298 square meters. It cost a total investment of 58 million yuan.One of the most unique installments in the nursing home are two large handheld prayer wheels and a hospice care room. Unlike the hospice care room the Global Times reporter once visited at a Beijing hospital which offered comfort for dying patients, the Qamdo facility hosts the patients' body for three days after his or her death. Monks will also be invited to the hospice care room to recite sutras. After three days, the body will be transported to another place for the celestial burial, during which  a human corpse is usually placed on the top of a mountain to be decomposed by scavenging animals, including vultures.Dawa Tsering, director of local civil affairs bureau, told the Global Times they set up the hospice care room in October 2015, aiming to soothe the concerns of the elderly people living here. "Every year, there are people here passing away and it's their [funeral] tradition, so we need to respect it," he said. After their deaths, the nursing home will normally contact the relatives of the deceased to fetch the corpses for celestial burial. But if no relative comes, the nursery home will handle their funeral.The elderly people living here can get a subsidy of more than 10,000 yuan ($1,430) a year provided by the government. Not all the 187 people living at the nursing home are elderly people; some are the disabled.Dawa Tsering said the setup of two large handheld prayer wheels are not only for religion, but also for fitness. These elderly people generally do not like to walk outside to keep fit but prefer to walk around to spin the prayer wheels. "Their religious demands and freedom are protected here," he said.According to him, despite all services being free of charge, people were still unwilling to come here in the beginning. The staff initially had to  persuade the elderly in Qamdo to experience the nursing home. There were only more than 10 elderly people living here at the initial stage. But after seeing their good environment and services which brought changes to the elderly people's lives, more people applied to come.The Global Times reporter noticed that the nursing home is well-equipped with a caring room, hair salon, bathing room and a little supermarket among many other accommodations.The oldest resident living here is aged 93. Kelsang Dechen, director of the nursing home, said this woman enjoys a "privileged" life here."If she wants to return old home today, we will send a car to fetch her. If she wants to see the living Buddha today, we will send a car to take her to the temple," Kelsang Dechen said.While the 93-year-old cannot speak Putonghua, her smile emanated from across the room. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  More Tibetan parents send children to school after central govt's nationwide targeted poverty alleviation campaign Born and raised in Tibet Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement