Staff members check the information of passengers entering China at the Pudong International Airport in Shanghai. Photo: XinhuaA total of 15 imported cases of COVID-19 were discharged from Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center (SHAPHC) on Wednesday upon their recovery, setting a record in the city for the number of people discharged in a single day within the past three months.As of Wednesday, SHAPHC, the designated hospital for COVID-19 treatment and therapy in Shanghai, has received and treated a total of 820 patients within the past seven months. A total of 742 patients in Shanghai have been discharged, while seven patients have died, with a recovering rate of more than 99 percent in Shanghai. In the early period of the coronavirus outbreak, other medical institutions were also involved in the treatment of confirmed patients in the city."The recovery rate of COVID-19 in Shanghai is very satisfactory," Zhu Tongyu, director of the SHAPHC, told the media on Wednesday."The efficient epidemic control mechanism in Shanghai allows patients to receive timely treatment if they get infected. As most of our patients are young and middle-aged persons, they have quickly recovered," Shen Yinzhong, chief physician from the infection and immunology department of SHAPHC, told the media Wednesday.Of the 742 recovered patients, 308 are local cases, whereas 434 are imported cases, Zhu noted. Currently, there are 86 patients receiving treatment for COVID-19 in SHAPHC.Shanghai has not reported any domestically-transmitted cases of COVID-19 as of March 5, Zhu noted. However, the city is still faced with the task of fighting the virus as imported cases have been reported for 16 consecutive days, triggering concerns about a further round of "circuit breakers" as more international flights prepare to make their return to the city."All of our staff at SHAPHC will not stop fighting against the virus until the pandemic ends around the world. We will try our best to safeguard the city and its residents," Zhu told the media.China on Wednesday celebrated the third annual Chinese Doctors' Day, a festival established in 2018 to honor the contributions of medical staff nationwide. 20 of Shanghai's 250,000 talented medical professionals stood out as "excellent medical staff" as they made efforts to treat and save lives, as well as showing innovation in delivering medical treatment, according to a list announced by Shanghai authorities on the same day. Some medical staff members fighting COVID-19 on the frontlines, including Zha Qiongfang, a respiratory physician from Shanghai's Renji Hospital who joined the battle in Wuhan, also made the list. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  More imported cases of COVID-19 in Shanghai trigger new circuit break concerns Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement