Chinese Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai delivers a speech in Washington D.C., the United States, Nov. 21, 2019. (Xinhua/Liu Jie)Chinese Ambassador to the US Cui Tiankai recently warned against attempts to push the China-US relationship into confrontation, and called on the US to correctly see bilateral ties and seize the opportunity in a post-pandemic world for future cooperation.The China-US relationship is going in the wrong direction and, like some have described, is in a "free fall," Cui warned in remarks at a recent webinar on China-US relations with the Brookings Institution. "Ideological crusades will not solve any problem in today's world and are doomed to fail."There have always been problems and difficulties in bilateral relations, but there are now attempts to negate what has been built up so painstakingly by generations of Chinese and Americans over the decades and to deliberately push our two countries into conflict and confrontation, Cui warned.The Chinese ambassador said the fundamental question for the China-US relationship is whether the US is ready to accommodate China and live with a country with a different history, culture and system, as China has deeply integrated itself into the current international system. But with the normalization of bilateral relations and the establishment of diplomatic ties, China and the US have already made their choice. "We need to live in peace, strive for co-evolution, properly manage our differences, expand cooperation, and build a comprehensive, stable and constructive relationship. I hope people will not try to negate all this and let the relationship go down a very dangerous path." Cui also noted that as China is a major country with an ancient civilization, its integration into the international system would inevitably bring changes. This is only logical and natural, and is like a kind of chemical reaction. China's intention is not to have a revolution or start up an entirely new system. While China has been trying to integrate into and adjust to the international system, we hope the system can make the necessary reforms in light of the varying circumstances, Cui said. Driving confrontation will not slow down or contain China's development, or even bring about a regime change, and external pressure will only lead to greater unity of the Chinese people, stronger cohesion of Chinese society and more resilience in the Chinese economy. In his remarks, the Chinese ambassador called on the US to make the right decision in bringing bilateral ties back to the normal track and expected positive responses from the US, adding that the "post-pandemic world" presents a good opportunity for the two countries to cooperate. As for the US presidential election, Cui said China is not anticipating anything and has no intention or interest in becoming involved.Cui called on the US to seize the day and seize the hour. "We are ready to work with the current administration to search for solutions to existing problems anytime, anywhere, even today or tomorrow. I just hope that they will free themselves from the panic and paranoia, which is costing them common sense in such a shocking way," Cui noted. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  US universities unlikely to exclude Chinese stocks from portfolios: expert Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement