Faced with an upsurge in coronavirus cases and alarm over images of summer crowds packing onto streets and beaches, some European governments have mandated masks even in open-air public places.

People wearing face masks walk on the street at Ginza in Tokyo, Japan, on Saturday. Photo: Xinhua But with many virus clusters sprouting behind closed doors in offices and other workplaces where face covering rules are less clear, experts have questioned if policies are focusing on the wrong target. In recent days several European countries have toughened their advice on masks, with France and Belgium widening their regulations to include certain outdoor settings.Brussels residents are now required to wear masks in all public spaces, and all spaces to which the public has access.In France, dozens of towns and cities - including Paris - have made face coverings mandatory in markets and busy streets. The country's Ministry of Health has said it was a "gesture of common sense" to wear one in crowded public places, while the head of France's science council, Jean-Francois Delfraissy, has said they should be "essential" on packed streets and at seaside resorts.  However, with little evidence that there is a high risk of transmission in outdoor settings, some experts have questioned whether the measures are misplaced. "Outside, there is such a mixing of air that you do not have a sufficient viral concentration to be infectious," said Martin Blachier, of the consulting company Public Health Expertise. He called the measure a "psychological gamble" that could push people to gather indoors, where he said the risk of contamination is far higher.Blachier said the focus should instead be on companies, where the current advice is "obsolete" because it is based on social distancing, without taking into account new research suggesting the virus can linger in the air for several hours. Many countries now require people to wear face coverings in certain enclosed public places, like shops, trains and buses. But offices are often given less stringent guidelines.   KK Cheng, who runs the Institute of Applied Health Research at Britain's University of Birmingham, said there was "no rational explanation" for why masks were compulsory in shops but not in most workplaces. He raised particular concerns over environments like call centers, where there are "large numbers of people all speaking quite loudly together." Newspaper headline: Global voices call for common sense 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  People wearing masks seen on street in Nice, France  Shopping at a flea market in masks Masks and marriage Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement