A billboard for Christopher Nolan's film Tenet on the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood on August 19. Photo: AFPIt is the film of the summer - the release that cinema operators, beset by coronavirus regulations around the world which have largely kept audiences at home, are praying will reboot the industry. That film is Christopher Nolan's Tenet, a clever blockbuster that slips between espionage and science fiction.After several postponements, Tenet, which ran to a $200 million budget, is the first of its kind to dare a release during the pandemic. Disney, in contrast, canned its plan for a big screen release for its flagship Mulan, preferring to run it on digital platforms. And the latest James Bond film No Time to Die, which was due for release in April, will only go into cinemas in November. But Warner Bros have faith in Nolan's ability to pull in the crowds - and with good reason.His rebooting of the Batman films in the shape of the Dark Knight trilogy has grossed more than $4 billion.His last film Dunkirk, which won three Oscars and had five other nominations, including one for Nolan, cost a mere $100 million and has grossed over $526 million.Tenet hits the screens on Wednesday - not in the US but in more than 70 countries, including most of Europe, Canada, Australia and South Korea. For the US, Warner Bros has held off for a week and is also counting on the important Labor Day holiday weekend, with a release planned for September 3. Critics around the world have been pointing to Tenet as the film that could save movie theaters with the BBC portraying Nolan as a "patron saint" of cinemas. The creator of Inception and Interstellar is aware of his clout in the film industry, as evidenced by his recent column in the Washington Post. "The past few weeks have been a reminder, if we needed one, that there are parts of life that are far more important than going to the movies," he wrote. "But, when you consider what theaters provide, maybe not so many as you might think."Tenet has everything to fulfill its mission. The film's script hook is reflected in its title, a palindrome, that is to say a word that can be read in both directions - similarly, time can be wound backwards or forwards in the film. The film appears to be a straightforward spy movie with a secret agent - John David Washington, seen in BlacKkKlansman - on the heels of an evil Kenneth Branagh who is threatening humanity.Except in true Nolan style there is a little twist to that - notably, that characters can reverse time. Nolan confessed Wednesday in a remote world press conference to being influenced by Dutch artist MC Escher as well as the 1977 Bond film The Spy Who Loved Me, which he saw aged 7."What I remember from it is the feeling of possibility that you could jump through that screen and go anywhere in the world and see the most amazing things," he said."It was pure escapism with an excellent fantasy component to it. "I have spent a lot of my career trying to get back to that feeling and trying to give that feeling to audiences. Take it back to that sense of wonderment about the possibilities of what movies can do and where they can take you."Tenet, shot in seven different countries, certainly delivers on that front.But the Nolan touch is a black hero, something that the decision-makers of the 007 franchise have yet to embrace.On the pure action front, there are echoes of the explosions of Heat or The Matrix, including an actual 747 passenger plane blowing up. Cinema owners hope the flick will prompt the public to return in droves and then keep coming back as they try to rebuild their industry.Newspaper headline: Rebooting an industry 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China's top film festival opens, igniting hope the global film industry is recovering First Amman Int'l Film Festival kicks off in Amman, Jordan Online Beijing International Film Festival launched on iQIYI Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement