Photo taken on Aug. 1, 2020 shows the interior of a makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients at the AsiaWorld-Expo in south China's Hong Kong. A makeshift hospital at the AsiaWorld-Expo, a venue near the Hong Kong International Airport, began receiving COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms since Saturday afternoon, Hong Kong's Hospital Authority (HA) said. (Xinhua/Wu Xiaochu)  A Chinese mainland architecture company has started designing a "fangcang" makeshift hospital for Hong Kong similar to the ones in Wuhan as Hong Kong witnesses a third wave of COVID-19 infections. A team made up of experts in architecture, structure, water supply and drainage, electrical, heating and ventilation started working on the design of the "fangcang" makeshift hospital for Hong Kong when they were assigned the task on July 29, the Wuhan-based architectural design institute Central South Architectural Design Institute (CSADI) told the Global Times on Tuesday. The Hong Kong-version of the "Fangcang" hospital is planned to be reconstructed at the Hong Kong AsiaWorld Expo, according to the company. The CSADI told the Global Times that their team will also be involved in the design of another temporary hospital in Hong Kong, but declined to reveal where the hospital will be located. Hong Kong has reported a total of 3,590 confirmed COVID-19 infections as of Monday. In addition to assisting Hong Kong in building the makeshift hospital at the AsiaWorld Expo, the central government will also help build a new specialist temporary hospital in Hong Kong, similar to the Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan, Hong Kong's Chief Secretary for Administration Matthew Cheung Kin-chung said on Sunday. Xie Hu, who was in charge of the architectural design of the Wuhan Leishenshan Hospital and a makeshift hospital in Wuchang district of Wuhan, has been dispatched to Hong Kong by CSADI, along with five other specialists with expertise in constructing Wuhan's makeshift hospitals.Xie reportedly worked through the night with his colleagues to complete the design of the Leishenshan Hospital and submitted the complete construction drawings in three days."During Xie's stay in Hong Kong, the entire team will give him 24-hour support to construct the fangcang hospital," a staff member from the publicity department of the CSADI told the Global Times. She said Xie is still awaiting the final order from authorities to depart. The team will borrow from the design experience of previous fangcang hospitals and provide a design scheme specially suited for the fangcang hospital in Hong Kong, such as creating a safety working zone for medical staff and separating clean and polluted zones. The first hall of the AsiaWorld Expo was put into use on Saturday, and can accommodate 500 inpatient beds. The Hospital Authority said it is considering renovating the second hall of the expo to host more patients. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Central govt to send COVID-19 testing personnel to HK, help build quarantine facility Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement