A fleet of over a thousand fishing boats heads toward the East China Sea as the fishing season begins in Zhoushan, Zhejiang Province on September 16, 2015. Photo: CFPChina's Ministry of Public Security has cracked down on 2,480 cases of illegal fishing in the Yangtze River basin as of July in a recently launched three-year campaign. The ministry has found and cracked down on over 2,480 illegal fishing cases as of the end of July, with 2,680 suspects caught and 1,040 boats seized. What's more, the ministry seized 2,290 sets of illegal fishing equipment and over 5,200 kilograms of fish. Notably, one suspect, surnamed Shen, who illegally caught fish using electricity on many occasions in the waters of Shenglisha of the Yangtze River, was found selling rare Chinese sucker fish, a second class protected animal species, to an aquatic product seller, surnamed Zhang, on June 21. Shen was discovered to have sold 165 kilograms of fish to Zhang. Both Shen and Zhang have since been detained on suspicion of committing illegal fishing actions. The Zhenjiang branch of the Yangtze River Shipping Public Security Bureau recently solved a case involving illegal fishing of aquatic products by two criminal gangs, catching 12 suspects. The suspects profited 150,000 yuan ($21,507) from selling over 100 kilograms of fish. By setting up a lead group and special working team, and working out plans and strict detailed measures, the ministry said it will make every effort to carry out the campaign against illegal fishing in the Yangtze River basin.The crimes of illegal fishing in the Yangtze River basin occur in many places. The criminals often conduct their actions at night to avoid investigation and most of their fishing sites are in remote and hidden areas. Operating private boats with engines or improvised rafts, the criminals often illegally fish with portable electric fishing devices that severely destroy the natural habitats of fish in the Yangtze River. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China to implement a 10-year fishing ban in the Yangtze River in 2021 Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement