People take photos during their visit to the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

The Elysee presidential palace is pictured in the morning before its opening to the public in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

People visit the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

A staff member checks the information of visitors at the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  

A visitor takes photos at the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  

People line up to visit the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

People pose for photos during their visit to the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  

A man takes photos for his sons during their visit to the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  

People visit the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  

The Elysee presidential palace is pictured in the morning before its opening to the public in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) 

Musicians perform for visitors at the Elysee presidential palace in Paris, France, Sept. 19, 2020. Some historical sites are opened to the public this weekend in France to mark the European Heritage Days, a cultural event held in September each year. (Xinhua/Gao Jing) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement