A Palestinian girl wearing a face mask and gloves stands in front of a grocery store in Gaza City, during the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, on Sept. 5, 2020. Palestine on Saturday recorded seven new death cases of the novel coronavirus, bringing the total number of deaths to 199. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)Palestine on Saturday recorded seven new death cases of the novel coronavirus, bringing the total number of deaths to 199.In a press statement, Palestinian Health Minister Mai al-Kaila said that among the seven new deaths, five were recorded in the West Bank, while two were reported in the Gaza Strip.She said that her ministry reported 433 new cases infected with the virus, raising the total number of infections to 33,250.Meanwhile, Hamas-run Health Ministry in the Gaza Strip warned of the increase in the infections"because the residents do not abide by the precautionary instructions."The government in Gaza is still imposing the full lockdown on the whole strip in order to contain the spread of the virus. 

A Palestinian man wearing a face mask rides a bicycle on a street in Gaza City, during the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, on Sept. 5, 2020. Palestine on Saturday recorded seven new death cases of the novel coronavirus, bringing the total number of deaths to 199. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua) 

Palestinians wearing face masks walk on a street in Gaza City, during the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, on Sept. 5, 2020. Palestine on Saturday recorded seven new death cases of the novel coronavirus, bringing the total number of deaths to 199. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua) 

Palestinians wearing face masks walk on a street in Gaza City, during the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, on Sept. 5, 2020. Palestine on Saturday recorded seven new death cases of the novel coronavirus, bringing the total number of deaths to 199. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement