Beijing Zoo launches a giant panda theme activity on Wednesday. Until September 30, offline visitors can learn popular scientific facts about giant pandas every Wednesday morning, and hear many behind-the-scenes stories, such as pandas being picky eaters, some like bamboo shoots while others like bamboo leaves. Photo: VCGBeijing zoo has adopted a smart monitoring system along with other measures to detect uncivilized behaviors, after a video of tourists feeding grass to wolves at the zoo drew a backlash on the internet. Those with severe violations will be added to a blacklist, Beijing News reported on Thursday. In a bid to prevent uncivilized tourist behaviors, especially random feeding, Beijing zoo has set up 220 warning signs across key areas that read "Feeding prohibited", local media learnt from zoo staff. Once detected, staff will immediately stop the action through broadcasts, while people who carry out severe violations will be added to a blacklist, which will trigger an alarm at the gate upon re-entering with the help of facial recognition.A video posted on Sina Weibo a few days ago featuring parents and children feeding wolves with weeds at the Beijing zoo has drawn a backlash among netizens. Apart from weeds, some tourists were seen feeding wolves with dry branches, ice cream sticks, and even instant noodles. Beijing zoo responded on Thursday by saying that the people involved have been found and put on a blacklist. The woman involved will have to receive civilization education if she wants to revisit the zoo, local media reported. A board has been put up outside the wolf exhibition area showing how veterinarians take out indigestible items from the animals' stomachs. Wooden fences extending 1,060 meters along the 13 animal playgrounds have also been set up to prevent random feeding. To protect the health and safety of its rare animals, Beijing zoo has designated staff around the grounds to discourage uncivilized behaviors in a timely manner. Particular attention is being paid to exhibition zones for monkeys, wolves, brown bears, gibbons, waterfowl, and elephants. A list of uncivilized actions in parks was published in late July by Beijing park management authorities. Damaging the environment, disturbing public order, throwing garbage, barbecuing and catching animals, as well as carving on buildings and trees are included on the list. Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Panda in Beijing Zoo suffers baldness, worrying Chinese fans  Beijing Zoo prepares facilities to help animals fend off summer heat Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement