Photo:XinhuaA circuit breaker will be triggered immediately for direct international flights if five passengers test positive for COVID-19 on a single flight, Beijing authorities said on Saturday, following the first imported asymptomatic infection case reported in Beijing on the same day since the capital resumed direct flights on September 3.Those flights are required to arrive at the designated first points of entry instead of Beijing after the suspension, Xu Hejian, spokesperson for the Beijing municipal government said during a press conference on Saturday. For those flights with over three confirmed COVID-19 cases, they will be also channeled to other cities instead of Beijing, Xu added. Beijing reported its first imported asymptomatic infection case on Saturday after the capital reopened international direct flights on September 3The case, whose name was not given, is a 23-year-old male resident domiciled from Northwest China's Gansu Province. He was confirmed infected on Friday during quarantine at Ditan hospital after flying from Pakistan to Beijing, Wang Quanyi, an official from the Beijing disease control and prevention department, told a press conference on Saturday.  The male began studying in Pakistan in 2017. When he was in Pakistan, he stayed within the university campus from September 3 to13 and wore masks when getting out of the dormitory. He had diarrhoea on Tuesday and felt better after taking medication.The man took the plane on Thursday on the Air China CA946 flight and arrived at Beijing on Friday. Customs collected samples from the passengers' respiratory tracts and sent them to quarantine points. The man's test result came out later that day and it was positive, then he was transferred to the Ditan hospital for further testing and treatment. According to Wang, the man did not have fever, neither did his CT results show any apparent abnormalities. Thirty-eight people on the flight who had close contact with the man have been quarantined and the hotel he stayed at has been disinfected. Beijing resumed direct international flights on September 3, after a 164-day suspension.Passengers on direct international flights to Beijing should be citizens of the countries and regions where their flights are originally taking off from, or Chinese nationals, as a move to further reduce the potential risks of COVID19 spreading, according to the Beijing authorities on Saturday.People from the third countries or regions are strictly prohibited from arriving at Beijing, the authorities said.Global Times Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement