Ty Lawson (No.3) of the Denver Nuggets goes up for a layup against Ronnie Brewer (No.8) and Derek Fisher (No.6) of the Oklahoma City Thunder. Photo: CFPThe Fujian Sturgeons announced Saturday it will not extend its contract with former NBA guard Ty Lawson, who has been playing for the China Basketball Association (CBA) team for a year, due to "his inappropriate comments" on Chinese women. Lawson posted the controversial comments on his personal Instagram account on Saturday, saying "Chinese women got cakes on the low." Two hours later, Lawson posted a photo of him and a woman in what appears to be a Chinese strip club. The Fujian Sturgeons wrote in the announcement that Lawson's inappropriate comments are not in line with the social responsibilities and values the club has long abided by and have caused serious negative social impacts on the club and the league, and that the club will not sign a new contract with him. The official Sina Weibo account of the CBA reposted the Fujian Sturgeons statement, adding "Respect above game."Lawson is reportedly banned from the Chinese league for life, according to Sportando. Lawson, who played in the NBA from 2009 to 2017 and was close to becoming an NBA All-star, has played in the CBA for the past three seasons. His contract with the Fujian Sturgeons ended in August, but the club had the option to extend the contract. Lawson has long been connected with an alcohol problem and a string of off-court incidents, and was arrested four times in the US for driving while intoxicated. In September 2019, Lawson was sued for allegedly attacking a woman in a night club in the US. Earlier in August, a video clip showed Lawson arguing violently with other customers at a Starbucks in Shanghai and telling them to get out of China, drawing a backlash from Chinese netizens.  A netizen wrote on China's biggest microblogging platform Weibo, "Moral quality before ability."Global Times 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  CBA fines French player for not raising his head during national anthem Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement