For the third time this year, torrential rains have hit Yemen, making "an already catastrophic humanitarian situation even worse," a UN spokesman said on Thursday.In late July and August, flooding damaged infrastructure, destroyed homes and shelters, ruined crops and killed people and livestock in governorates across the country already suffering from civil war, the COVID-19 pandemic and growing risk of famine, said Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.Estimates indicated that more than 62,000 families were affected across the country.

A boy walks by barriers built by residents to prevent floods in the north of Sanaa, Yemen, on Aug. 12, 2020. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua) Some 24 million people across Yemen need humanitarian aid, including 14 million in acute need, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said in a situation report.A fuel crisis that has been plaguing the country has seriously hampered the humanitarian response in northern governorates and stranded migrants are in desperate need of humanitarian aid, OCHA said. Additionally, there are 3.65 million displaced people in the country.The latest OCHA figures on the COVID-19 pandemic show 1,962 confirmed cases, including 567 deaths and 1,133 recoveries as of the end of last month.The population of Yemen is about 20 million people.

Children walk at their flooded house after heavy rains in Sanaa, Yemen, on Aug. 7, 2020. (Photo by Mohammed Mohammed/Xinhua)"The United Nations and our humanitarian partners provided emergency food supplies, hygiene kits and other essential items to more than 7,600 families affected by the floods across the country, while nearly 8,000 families have been verified for emergency assistance," Dujarric said.The Humanitarian Response Plan for Yemen at the end of last month was only 24 percent funded, the lowest figure ever seen in Yemen so late in the year, OCHA said. Only 811.5 million U.S. dollars of the 3.38 billion U.S. dollars that are needed have been donated."We urge donors to pay all outstanding pledges immediately and we urge those who have yet to pledge or pay to do so and increase support," the spokesman told correspondents at a regular, virtual briefing. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement