Marika Tsolakis, senior researcher at Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attacks, addresses the UN Security Council meeting on children and armed conflict, with a focus on attacks against schools as a grave violation of children's rights, at the UN headquarters in New York, on Sept. 10, 2020. The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education. (Eskinder Debebe/UN Photo/Handout via Xinhua) The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education.In a presidential statement, the council reiterated its strong condemnation of attacks as well as threats of attacks against schools, children, teachers and other persons entitled to protection who are connected to schools. It urged all parties to armed conflict to immediately cease such attacks and threats and to refrain from actions that impede children's access to education.The Security Council expressed deep concern at the military use of schools, recognizing that such use may render schools legitimate targets of attack, thus endangering children's and teachers' safety as well as children's education.The council expressed concern that girls and women may be the intended victims of attacks targeting schools.It condemned the lack of accountability for violations committed against children, teachers and other persons entitled to protection.

Photo taken on Sept. 10, 2020 shows the UN Security Council meeting on children and armed conflict, with a focus on attacks against schools as a grave violation of children's rights, at the UN headquarters in New York. The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education. (Eskinder Debebe/UN Photo/Handout via Xinhua) The Security Council urged UN member states to develop effective measures to prevent and address attacks and threats of attacks against schools, and encouraged them to ensure that national strategic frameworks include comprehensive measures to prevent attacks against schools.

Abdou Abarry, permanent representative of Republic of Niger to the United Nations and president of the Security Council for the month of September, chairs the UN Security Council meeting on children and armed conflict, with a focus on attacks against schools as a grave violation of children's rights, at the UN headquarters in New York, on Sept. 10, 2020. The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education. (Eskinder Debebe/UN Photo/Handout via Xinhua) The council called on member states to ensure that their armed forces and security forces integrate or continue to integrate practical measures for the protection of schools, children, teachers and other persons entitled to protection.The Security Council emphasized the need for member states to facilitate the continuation of education during armed conflict. 

UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) Executive Director Henrietta Fore (on the screen) briefs the UN Security Council meeting on children and armed conflict, with a focus on attacks against schools as a grave violation of children's rights, at the UN headquarters in New York, on Sept. 10, 2020. The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education. (Eskinder Debebe/UN Photo/Handout via Xinhua) 

Virginia Gamba (on the screen), UN secretary-general's special representative for children and armed conflict, briefs the UN Security Council meeting on children and armed conflict, with a focus on attacks against schools as a grave violation of children's rights, at the UN headquarters in New York, on Sept. 10, 2020. The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education. (Eskinder Debebe/UN Photo/Handout via Xinhua) 

Rimana Youssouf Assane Mayaki (on the screen), member of Youth Parliament of Niger, addresses the UN Security Council meeting on children and armed conflict, with a focus on attacks against schools as a grave violation of children's rights, at the UN headquarters in New York, on Sept. 10, 2020. The UN Security Council on Thursday voiced grave concern about the significant increase of attacks on schools in recent years and the resulting alarming number of children denied access to quality education. (Eskinder Debebe/UN Photo/Handout via Xinhua) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement