A view of London Photo: VCGResponding to the demand from 23 universities in the UK, Chinese airline Hainan Airlines is arranging the first batch of chartered flights for Chinese students to start or resume their studies in the UK amid the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a statement from Hainan Airlines on Wednesday, Chinese students to 23 British universities are qualified to take the chartered flights, such as the University of Manchester, University of York, University of Bristol and University of Leeds and so on. The first batch of chartered flights HU7953 and HU7963 will take off from Southwest China's Chongqing and land in Manchester, but exact flight execution date will fall between September 21 to 27, according to the statement. British universities had asked for students' demand on Wednesday (UK time) through email and will give passenger lists to the airline. There is no other way to sell the ticket of such chartered flights. Hainan Airlines will call the listed Chinese students one by one to give them the tickets. According to an email from the University of Bristol to a Chinese student surnamed Shi, seen by the Global Times on Thursday, the flights will operate from September 21 to November 11. The ticket price of economy class is 11,880 yuan ($1,753) without tax, Shi who currently lives in Beijing, told the Global Times. Media reports said the price for business class is 32,880 yuan.No COVID-19 testing result is required to enter the UK so far but passengers must take a 14-day self-quarantine when they arriving in the country, an instruction for Chinese students said on the airline's website. Chinese Embassy in the UK and the municipal government of Chongqing supported the chartered flights, according to the statement. On Thursday, the British Embassy in China told the Global Times in a statement that a new and fairer student visa system will be launched by the British government on October 5, which will allow Chinese students to submit their visa applications in six months before their courses start - three months earlier than the past. Such change will provide more flexibility for applicants to arrange trips to the UK amid the pandemic. Since the visa application center reopened this June, it has seen an increasing demand of visa applications by Chinese students, said Charlotte Day, UKVI Regional Director, Asia Pacific. Day noted that the earlier opening of the new student visa system delivered a clear message: "UK is open. We expect more Chinese students to come to the UK, to study in the world famous education institutions."UCAS, Britain's universities admissions service, said more than 12,000 students from China are due to arrive this autumn, a 23 percent increase from 9,860 last year.Global Times Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik