Park facilities are submerged at Qunli Bund Park in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 23, 2020. The water level of the Songhua River in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province exceeded warning levels on Wednesday, causing local authorities to embargo navigation on the waterway. The water level at the Harbin hydrometric station in the provincial capital on Wednesday morning rose to 118.4 meters, 0.1 meters above the warning line. (Xinhua/Zhang Tao) The water level of the Songhua River in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province exceeded warning levels on Wednesday, causing local authorities to embargo navigation on the waterway. The water level at the Harbin hydrometric station in the provincial capital on Wednesday morning rose to 118.4 meters, 0.1 meters above the warning line. Qunli Bund Park in Harbin was closed on Wednesday. Signs of flood danger were seen at the gate, where guards prohibited all vehicles and personnel from entering. Along the waterfront of the park, some street lamps, benches and park facilities had already been submerged. 

Park facilities are submerged at Qunli Bund Park in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 23, 2020. The water level of the Songhua River in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province exceeded warning levels on Wednesday, causing local authorities to embargo navigation on the waterway. The water level at the Harbin hydrometric station in the provincial capital on Wednesday morning rose to 118.4 meters, 0.1 meters above the warning line. (Xinhua/Zhang Tao) The Harbin maritime safety administration has ordered the implementation of water traffic control on the river, suspending all traffic and mining operations. The Songhua River is the largest tributary of the Heilongjiang River, which flows across China's border into Russia, where it is known as the Amur. 

Park facilities are submerged at Qunli Bund Park in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 23, 2020. The water level of the Songhua River in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province exceeded warning levels on Wednesday, causing local authorities to embargo navigation on the waterway. The water level at the Harbin hydrometric station in the provincial capital on Wednesday morning rose to 118.4 meters, 0.1 meters above the warning line. (Xinhua/Zhang Tao) 

Some facilities along the Songhua River are submerged in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 23, 2020. The water level of the Songhua River in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province exceeded warning levels on Wednesday, causing local authorities to embargo navigation on the waterway. The water level at the Harbin hydrometric station in the provincial capital on Wednesday morning rose to 118.4 meters, 0.1 meters above the warning line. (Xinhua/Zhang Tao) 

Photo taken on Sept. 23, 2020 shows the Songhua River in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 23, 2020. The water level of the Songhua River in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province exceeded warning levels on Wednesday, causing local authorities to embargo navigation on the waterway. The water level at the Harbin hydrometric station in the provincial capital on Wednesday morning rose to 118.4 meters, 0.1 meters above the warning line. (Xinhua/Yang Zhe) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement