Aerial photo shows fishing boats sailing to the East China Sea in Zhoushan, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Yao Feng/Xinhua) More than a thousand fishing boats departed from the Shipu Port in east China's Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. Local fishery authorities have cleaned up and dredged shipping channels in the Shipu Port and carried out safety inspections on fishing boats and crew members. China's summer fishing ban, starting on May 1 annually, is part of China's efforts to protect marine fishery resources and the ecological environment. No fishing activities were allowed in the Bohai Sea, the Yellow Sea, the East China Sea, and the waters north to 12 degrees north latitude of the South China Sea during the moratorium period. 

Fishing boats depart from the Shenjiamen Port in Zhoushan, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Chen Yongjian/Xinhua) 

Fishing boats depart from the Shipu Port in Ningbo, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Zhang Peijian/Xinhua) 

Fishing boats depart from the Shipu Port in Ningbo, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Zhang Peijian/Xinhua) 

Aerial photo shows fishing boats departing from a port in Wenling, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Zhu Haiwei/Xinhua) 

Fishing boats depart from the Shenjiamen Port in Zhoushan, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Hu Sheyou/Xinhua) 

Aerial photo shows fishing boats sailing to the East China Sea in Zhoushan, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 16, 2020. Fishing boats departed from ports in Zhejiang Province at noon on Wednesday, marking the end of the four-and-a-half month summer fishing ban in the East China Sea. (Photo by Zhang Lei/Xinhua) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement