Sujiatun Auto Core Parts Industrial Park, located in Shenyang, is one of three major industrial zones in Shenshui New Industry City. Photo: CFLDChina's security market, after 30 years since its founding, has fostered a large number of leading companies with high dividends, high growth rates and sound governance structures, including China Fortune Land Development (CFLD), a real estate company traditionally classified as an industrial park category.Close observation of the company's strategic positioning and business directions in recent years shows CFLD's core business - new industry cities - is developing on a path of platformization. By providing incubators, services and investment for enterprises entering the industrial park, it offers to facilitate the development of enterprises and promotes regional economic growth and industrial restructuring.Facilitating the development of the manufacturing industries and the real economyUnder the framework of China's economy, manufacturing industries may be the hardest to survive and grow. Various difficulties are slowing the development of the sector, including difficulties in securing financing, research and development and cultivating talent.CFLD offers a full range of services to manufacturing enterprises located in its new industrial cities. These include industrial giants BOE Technology and Sunwoda.  CFLD also attaches great importance to fostering companies planning to go public. Gu'an Xintong Signal Tech, a CFLD client, became the first company to apply for listing on the science and technology innovation board in North China's Hebei Province.CFLD also offers in-depth support to firms with promising prospect through investment.Enhancing momentum for industrial upgrading and regional developmentCFLD offers stronger strategic value to manufacturing firms amid transition periods. After 40 years of development, some China's first and second-tier cities can no longer support the population and industries with limited space and resources. The development of metropolis circles has fairly solved the problem. Firms relocating to more spacious satellite cities have lower costs that can help them reshape their competitive advantages. Many national strategic enterprises such as China Aerospace have located some of their businesses to new industry cities and realized higher quality development and higher operational efficiency.CFLD also helps facilitate regional economies achieve industrial upgrades and high-quality development. The company helps introduce advanced industrial clusters to cities. As these clusters shape up, talent also gathers there.Sharing interest in the development of metropolis circlesThe further development of metropolis circles and city clusters will maintain crucial strategic value for China's economy.Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, the Yangtze River Delta region, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area and other regional economic circles have initiated development as metropolis circles or city clusters, and have the potential to achieve dozens of trillions of yuan in economic value.Companies like CFLD could provide vital support for the rational arrangement of the internal structure of city clusters, and the formation of a new cooperative pattern that includes multiple divisions of megacities, metropolitan circles and urban agglomeration. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese New Industry City operator CFLD recorded revenue of 37.37 billion yuan in H1 Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik