Two Americans peer into a flooded street in front of their hotel as Hurricane Sally passed through the area on Wednesday local time in Pensacola, Florida. The storm is bringing heavy rain, high winds and a dangerous storm surge to the area. Photo: AFP At least 51.6 million people worldwide have been affected by floods, droughts or storms and COVID-19, showed the news analysis published Wednesday by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre. "COVID-19 is directly affecting and increasing the needs of persons affected by climate-related disasters," said the paper, which demonstrated the huge scale of combined impacts of climate-related disasters and the pandemic. The analysis, which quantifies the overlapping vulnerability of communities, showed that out of 132 identified unique extreme weather events that have occurred so far in 2020, 92 have overlapped with the COVID-19 pandemic. At least 51.6 million people globally have been recorded as directly affected by an overlap of floods, droughts, or storms and the COVID-19 pandemic and over 3,000 people have been killed in these events, showed the filing. The largest impact disasters of this type have occurred in India and Bangladesh with almost 40 million people across the two countries have been affected by both the pandemic and floods or storms. The analysis also indicated that at least a further 2.3 million people have been affected by major wildfires and an estimated 437.1 million people in vulnerable groups have been exposed to extreme heat, all while contending with the direct health impacts of COVID-19 or measures implemented to curb its spread. "The climate crisis has not stopped for COVID-19, and millions of people have suffered from the two crises colliding," IFRC President Francesco Rocca said, noting "we have had absolutely no choice but to address both crises simultaneously." "COVID-19 has exposed our vulnerabilities like never before and, as our preliminary analysis shows, compounded suffering for millions of people affected by climate-related disasters," said Julie Arrighi, climate advisor with the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement