A vender carries food for sale at Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand, Sept. 15, 2020. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 

A man runs on the Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand, Sept. 15, 2020. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 

Photo taken on Sept. 15, 2020 shows the Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 

Photo taken on Sept. 15, 2020 shows the Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 

A man sits on the Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand, Sept. 15, 2020. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 

A vender waits for tourists at Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand, Sept. 15, 2020. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) 

Photo taken on Sept. 15, 2020 shows the Pattaya beach in Chonburi province, Thailand. With the skies shut and borders sealed, the Thai economy had since March been suffering with the lack of cash flows from the tourism industry. (Xinhua/Rachen Sageamsak) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement