Photo taken on Nov. 8, 2018 shows the scenery of Erhai Lake in Dali, southwest China's Yunnan Province. (Xinhua/Yang Zongyou)A man from Central China's Henan Province who polluted Erhai Lake, which serves as the source of drinking water for Dali, Southwest China's Yunnan Province, in June, was fined 20,000 yuan ($2,928) and ordered to take measures to eliminate the pollution by the local environmental protection authority on Monday. The man, surnamed Xu, transported three buckets of odorous liquid each weighing 25 kilograms to the wetlands around Erhai Lake before pouring one of them into the wetlands around 6:30 pm on June 28. The local environmental protection authority, the Dali city branch of the bureau of ecology and environment of Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture, who received reports about the incident, immediately carried out an investigation. Test results of the liquid left in the bucket and earth samples collected from the affected areas showed that the liquid was highly acidic and posed significant dangers to the surface water environment with all indicators much higher than the quality standard of surface water. After two months' investigation and a hearing, local authorities issued their decision on August 28, ordering Xu to take measures to eliminate the pollution as well as a fine of 20,000 yuan. As the second largest fresh water lake in Yunnan, Erhai Lake is the drinking water source and "mother lake" for local residents. The Dali government has been firmly protecting and managing Erhai with scientific and systematic efforts in accordance with laws and regulations. Surging tourism development in the area and the agricultural production with heavy use of pesticides and fertilizers, however, have put additional pressure on the local environment. The local government launched a massive campaign in the wake of concerns over Erhai Lake being polluted, resulting in the demolition of over 1,800 lakeside houses, including 540 guesthouses, starting in October of 2018. The prefecture also banned the sale and use of fertilizer containing nitrogen and phosphorus as well as highly toxic and residual pesticides to prevent pollution in Erhai through chemical fertilizers leaking into the lake through rainwater. Through unremitting efforts, the trend of major water quality indexes in Erhai have been generally positive in recent years and preliminary results have been achieved in all aspects of protection and governance of the lake. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Lakeside Lament Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement