Cao Dewang, chairman of Fuyao Glass Photo: VCGCao Dewang, chairman of the glass manufacturing company Fuyao Group, said he feels strongly supported by the US government and officials in the operation of the company's US plants, despite the intensifying trade friction between the two countries. Fuyao Group was featured in the award-winning documentary American Factory last year, which depicted the company's story of operating in the US. However, despite the recent deterioration of trade relations between China and the US, Cao told the Global Times that his business is not facing any threat or injustice in the US. On the contrary, the business is gaining considerable profit and recognition."In the past week, Congressman Mike Turner came to our plant to do research," Cao said. "He asked us if we have any difficulties and how the government can be of help."Cao said the only problem at the plant is a shortage of labor due to the COVID-19 crisis, and local officials, including Turner, launched several media campaigns calling for more staff to return to work. "I don't speak English, so I don't know if the Western media is depicting us in a negative way," Cao said, "but whether it's in the US or Germany, I do feel respected, understood and supported by the local governments."Fuyao Group has three plants in the US, located in the states of Michigan, Ohio and Illinois. "We have been making progress using our own technology, and we have no dispute with the US," Cao said. "The US and China cannot leave each other. The two countries should find solutions through negotiations when there is a problem."Cao is confident that the coming US election won't threaten his business in the US, as economic development is a key priority, whoever is in office. "I don't have any advice for Chinese companies seeking better development in the US, but I do think respect for the law and respect for local US people is the premise, not pride and ignorance," Cao said. "I believe as long as we are abiding by the law, and making products that the US needs, we will be accepted here no matter who is the president."China's manufacturing is facing unprecedented challenges as the global supply chain evolves, including the shifting of some of Japanese and South Korean production lines out of China. "I don't think it is because Japan and South Korea are against China. We should do some soul-searching and think about what our advantages and disadvantages are compared with Southeast Asian countries," Cao said. "We are losing our advantage in labor cost to countries in Southeast Asia," Cao said, "and tariffs on Chinese products are also on the rise. We are now at a similar stage as when production chains were moving out of the US in the 70s and 80s." 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Fuyao Glass receives praise letter from Ohio for contributing to local jobs Fuyao Glass to add new jobs in the US Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik