A child experiences a science popularization device at Yangzhou Science and Technology Museum in Yangzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Meng Delong/Xinhua) The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Exhibitions at the China Science and Technology Museum will focus on sci-tech innovation, public health, and achievements in fighting the COVID-19 epidemic with science and technology. A series of science popularizing events on popular science reading, health, public safety, and water conservation will be held nationwide from Sept. 19 to 25. 

A child experiences a rolling gear at Hisense Sci-exploration Center in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Tang Ke/Xinhua) An online platform (https://www.kepuri.org/) is expected to be at the frontline of this year's events. The public can watch live broadcasts and science videos on the platform, as well as remotely participate in knowledge contests and other activities held across the country. Since 2004, nearly 100,000 science popularizing activities have been held on the National Science Popularization Day. 

A child experiences an astronomical telescope at Yangzhou Science and Technology Museum in Yangzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Meng Delong/Xinhua) 

Children experience airflow tunnel at Hisense Sci-exploration Center in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Tang Ke/Xinhua) 

A child and his mother walk through a dazzling channel at Nanjing Science and Technology Museum in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Sun Zhongnan/Xinhua) 

A pupil experiences a three-dimensional rolling loop at Binzhou Science and Technology Museum in Binzhou, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Chen Bin/Xinhua) 

Children experience VR devices at Nanjing Science and Technology Museum in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 19, 2020. The 16th National Science Popularization Day kicked off on Saturday. Activities to popularize science started Saturday across the country and will last until Sept. 25. (Photo by Sun Zhongnan/Xinhua) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement