Hua Chunying File photo:CGTNChinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying on Thursday responded to accusations from some Western media and politicians who recently used the term "wolf warrior" to describe China's diplomacy. Hua stressed that China has no tradition of being aggressive, but will also not flinch in the face of bullying and provocations."It is true that there are some people who know nothing about China but have the intention and desire to make groundless accusations against China," Hua said at a routine press briefing Thursday, after German media Der Tagesspiegel accused China of "wolf warrior diplomacy," but used a wrong Chinese character to describe "power."EU ambassador Nicolas Chapuis on Thursday said that the EU and the US should work together to stand up for China's "wolf warrior diplomacy" and coordinate with other countries in the region on the disputed South China Sea, Reuters reported. "I wonder if those who accuse China of 'wolf warrior diplomacy' have ever watched the Disney cartoon, The Lion King, and what they think of Simba, the lovable little lion who has grown and matured amid suspicions, censure and attacks," said Hua. "There have been conflicts between China and some countries. But which of these incidents was caused by China's provocation? Is China interfering in other countries' internal affairs, or just the opposite?" Hua asked.Some Western countries, led by the US, stigmatized China and politicized the pandemic, and US President Donald Trump even called COVID-19 the "China virus." The US also suppressed Chinese enterprises like Huawei and Tiktok in the name of national security. Along with the UK and Australia, the US has brutally interfered in Hong Kong-related affairs, and maliciously attacked China's political system, and even imposed sanctions. "When it comes to wolf-like attacks on China from some countries on trumped-up charges, how can China just be a silent lamb?" Hua asked.Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng, at a forum in Beijing on Saturday, called the "wolf warrior diplomacy" tag another version of the "China threat" theory and a "discourse trap.""Their purpose is to make China refrain from retaliating or scolding, and make China give up its right to tell the truth," Hua said. Observers believe that the West will adjust to China's new assertive and confident diplomatic style one day when they genuinely accept peaceful coexistence with a powerful China, and admit that containment of and confrontation against China are meaningless and useless. They stressed that an assertive diplomatic style and firm retaliation against Western provocations can speed up this process.China's diplomatic representatives defend the interests and dignity of the 1.4 billion Chinese people, who make up one-fifth of the world's population. On issues concerning China's sovereignty, security, development interests and international fairness and justice, China's diplomacy must resolutely and forcefully respond to all malicious provocations, vigorously defend national interests and dignity, and safeguard international fairness and justice, said Hua.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  China’s ‘wolf warrior sentiment’ shows confidence, correction to ‘irrational worship of the West’ 'Wolf Warrior' label to suppress China's diplomatic maneuvers ‘Wolf Warrior diplomacy’ label another version of ‘China threat’ theory, aims to push China to give up fighting: Chinese Vice FM Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement