The decapitated body of a young man has been found in Tunisia's central Kasserine region, in a probable "terrorist" attack, a justice official said.

Kmar (right), mother of Nice assailant Brahim Aouissaoui, who killed three people and wounded several in the French city of Nice, cries at her home on October 29. Photo: VCG"The decapitated body of a young man has been found... and it is probable that a terrorist group was behind the attack," senior prosecutor Mohsen Dali said, naming the victim as 20-year-old Oqba al-Dhibi. An investigation was underway, he added. Local radio said Dhibi was a shepherd who was tending his flock when he came under attack. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. Attacks have been carried out in the same mountainous areas of central Tunisia before, some 225 kilometers south-west of the capital. In 2015, teenager Mabrouk Soltani was beheaded by an extremist group, a killing that shook public opinion. Two years later, his older brother, Khalifa Soltani, was found dead after he was reported kidnapped by a gang in the same region. Those two killings were claimed by the Islamic State group. The mountainous central region of Tunisia is also a hideout for the Tunisian branch of jihadist group Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, known as Okba Ibn Nafaa.Tunisian Prime Minister Hichem Mechichi, in a brief statement, denounced a "terrorist operation," stressing that the struggle "must continue unabated." Since its 2011 revolution, Tunisia has been hit by a string of jihadist attacks.Newspaper headline: Tunisisan shepherd slain by terrorists 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Tunisian president inaugurates new hospital built with Chinese aid 21 killed in migrant boat sinking: Tunisia court At least 11 migrants from Africa die after their boat sinks off Tunisia Tunisian PM announces new measures to fight COVID-19 Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement