A medical worker takes a swab sample from a man being tested for the COVID-19 in Wuhan,Central China's Hubei Province, on Friday. Photo: AFPChina's CDC has completed a national epidemiological survey of COVID-19 serum and found that the Chinese population had a low infection rate, according to the survey. The National Epidemiological Survey of COVID-19 Serum was conducted among some 34,000 people over a month after China contained the first wave of the COVID-19 outbreak, which shows the positive rate of coronavirus antibodies in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, was 4.43 percent. However, in Hubei outside Wuhan, it was 0.44 percent. But there were only two tested positive among 12,000 surveyed outside Hubei nationwide. Besides Wuhan and other cities in Hubei, the survey also covered two provinces and municipalities including Beijing, Shanghai, Northeast China's Liaoning Province,  East China's Jiangsu Province, South China's Guangdong Province and Southwest China's Sichuan Province. In summary, the survey shows China has successfully fought the virus in the major battlefield of Wuhan, and effectively prevented it from spreading at a much larger scale as the overall population showed a low infection rate.Those who had contact with coronavirus-infected patients had a higher positive rate of antibodies compared to other groups, and antibody rates among seniors were higher than other age groups, according to the survey. The serological investigation could help people to find out how infectious and contagious the novel coronavirus is as well as its dynamic changes. Epidemiologists said the investigation could help detect the proportion of asymptomatic infections and its impact on future prevention and control. More importantly, it will help to know the proportion of those with immunity. If the proportion of herd immunity is not high, it is impossible to prevent and control the epidemic through herd immunity. To reach the immune barrier, at least 60 percent of the population needs to be immune, they said.  Wuhan conducted the serological investigation from April 14-16 on 11,000 residents. The same investigation was conducted in nine other places to get a clear picture of the infection status in China. Ding Gangqiang, a Chinese disease control official, previously said that this investigation, covering 10 provinces and cities, aimed to find out the occurrence of silent carriers and the level of novel coronavirus antibodies in communities in China to provide scientific evidence for the adjustment of anti-epidemic measures.  Global Times  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Epidemiological investigations on Tianjin suggest Wuhan COVID-19 outbreak may have come from abroad Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement