File photo: VCGThere is growing use of ghostwriters in various teenage competitions, even though it is a kind of cheating that both spoils the meaning of the competitions and also teaches teenagers that there are shortcuts to success, experts said. A recent survey by The Paper revealed that a group of ghostwriters who claim to specialize in youth competitions are active on online platforms such as Taobao, Baidu Tieba, and Xianyu, providing "customized" services for students and participating in various competitions on the students' behalf, with prices clearly marked according to the level and difficulty of the competitions. As well as writing, other services such as painting are on offer.Searching for the keyword "in place of painting" on the Xianyu app, many merchants directly indicate in prominent positions in their online shops that they can provide such competition services for clients. Some even post the numerous award certificates that they have obtained for their customers as a reflection of their "business capabilities.""At first it was just my part-time job. I originally worked as an advertising designer, but then I found out that I could make more money doing this, so I quit my job to become a full-time painter," Zheng Jie, a graduate student from Tianjin Academy of Fine Arts, told the Global Times. He has been working as a ghostwriter on Xianyu for more than two years.Zheng's business includes science fiction paintings and other designs for students. The price of each painting is different, starting from 150 yuan, with no ceiling. One of Zheng's most expensive orders was a design for a national university innovation competition for which he received 8,000 yuan ($1,217) after his work won second prize."The winning rate of my work is about 85 percent. I will consult with my clients before the deal, and if my works don't win, the final price is usually 30 percent off the original price," Zheng said.In China, many kinds of competitions have long explicitly prohibited the hiring of expert assistance.In July, netizens questioned a prize-winner in the 34th National Youth Science and Technology Innovation Competition. The submission was a study of colorectal cancer, but many believed a student could not complete such a high-level study independently. It later turned out that the student's father was a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, who apologized for his excessive involvement in the project. The event's organizing committee eventually withdrew their award. In the same month, the Chinese Ministry of Education issued a notification asking local authorities to review the authenticity and originality of prizes awarded in previous competitions, and announcing that any competition award will not be used as the basis for additional points in elementary education.This trend will be short-lived, said Chu Zhaohui, a research fellow at the National Institute of Education Science."The works produced by ghostwriters are basically stereotyped, and they can easily be spotted by professional and responsible judges," Chu told the Global Times.Chu also noted that schools and parents should not blindly use the awards to improve their children's study or employment prospects, as it sets a bad example for teenagers. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement