Mao Zedong Photo:VCGSaturday marks the 127th anniversary of the birth of Mao Zedong, one of the great men of the last century. The Chinese people miss the late Chinese leader deeply. Mao participated in the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and led the CPC and the Chinese people to establish People's Republic of China, laying a solid political foundation for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. As time passes, his remarkable achievements have taken on more extraordinary historical significance. Mao also made some mistakes in the later years of his life. This is also worth remembering. I have been on Weibo for nearly 10 years, every time I write about Mao, I mention this point. Some people ask, why do you always refer to the mistakes he made when you commemorate him? Everybody makes mistake, why do Mao's mistakes have to be repeatedly mentioned? My answer is: It's of long-term realistic significance for our country to remember the mistakes that this great man made.  We should admire and commemorate a great man but not shirk his defects - this will strengthen our culture. The respect and admiration of Mao continues to grow stronger among the Chinese people. He was a true leader of the people and dedicated himself to changing the destiny of the Chinese people. Many of his family members sacrificed themselves, went missing, or lost their health. He led the country through the most difficult period and did some things crucial to China's later rise, which bolstered the backbone of modern China.  Without the hard-work and dedication of the generation of Chinese people led by Mao and his comrades, our life today might be similar to life in India (China's per capita GDP in the 1950s was the same as India's), Indonesia or the Philippines.  It has been over 70 years since the establishment of People's Republic of China founded by Mao. China has grown into the world's second strongest country from one that was poor, weak and bullied by external forces. It's foolish for anyone in China to deny the benefits of the cause led by Mao and the CPC. This is what our external opponents and enemies are inciting us to do. The Chinese people need to grow mentally strong, and keep pace with our country's development.  The author is editor-in-chief of the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn   
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Mao's birthplace receives Shenzhou-10 manned spacecraft reentry capsule China's manned spacecraft Shenzhou-10 reentry capsule officially settles in Mao's birthplace Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement