Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin. Photo: VCGChina's Foreign Ministry spokesperson has reiterated China's timeline of its handling of the COVID-19 outbreak in response to accusations from an article of The New York Times, claiming that it concealed information at the start of the epidemic. "Again, the fact is clear that China immediately reported the epidemic to the World Health Organization, shared the novel coronavirus gene sequence with other countries and started international cooperation in epidemic prevention and control right after the outbreak," said Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin at a routine Monday press conference. Wang said China has more than once responded to the Western media's questions regarding the way the Chinese government dealt with the COVID-19 outbreak. The anti-epidemic timeline that China shared with world is clear, which refutes the groundless accusations made by some Western media. China's releasing of epidemic-related information is timely, open and transparent, he said. "From December 31, 2019, Wuhan started releasing epidemic information in accordance with the law. Since January 3, China has regularly informed the WHO and relevant countries and regions, including the US, of the epidemic in a timely manner. Since January 21, China's National Health Commission (NHC) and provincial authorities have been releasing the previous day's national and local epidemic information on a daily basis. Since February 3, relevant data has been released simultaneously on the NHC's English language website," he said. "We hope that the relevant media and organizations can respect the facts and science, and report China's epidemic control situation objectively and impartially," said Wang.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Timeline of China releasing information on COVID-19 and advancing international cooperation FM slams US smear on virus info with timeline Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement