A congratulation ceremony is held for the successful launch of the first cargo train from Turkey to China in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Dec. 23, 2020. The first cargo train from Turkey to China has arrived in the northwestern Chinese city of Xi'an. All goods completed customs clearance, according to local authorities. The cargo train, loaded with 1,383 refrigerators for the home appliance manufacturer BSH Hausgerate GmbH (BSH), traveled 8,693 km after leaving Istanbul on Dec. 4. The cargo is worth about 10.4 million yuan (about 1.59 million U.S. dollars), according to the Xi'an International Trade & Logistics Park. (Xinhua/Li Yibo) The first cargo train from Turkey to China has arrived in the northwestern Chinese city of Xi'an. All goods completed customs clearance, according to local authorities. The cargo train, loaded with 1,383 refrigerators for the home appliance manufacturer BSH Hausgerate GmbH (BSH), traveled 8,693 km after leaving Istanbul on Dec. 4. The cargo is worth about 10.4 million yuan (about 1.59 million US dollars), according to the Xi'an International Trade & Logistics Park. "The joyous occasion marks the revival of the historical ties between Turkey and China," said Abdulkadir Emin Onen, Turkish ambassador to China, while addressing a ceremony to mark the event. 

A congratulation ceremony is held for the successful launch of the first cargo train from Turkey to China in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Dec. 23, 2020. The first cargo train from Turkey to China has arrived in the northwestern Chinese city of Xi'an. All goods completed customs clearance, according to local authorities. The cargo train, loaded with 1,383 refrigerators for the home appliance manufacturer BSH Hausgerate GmbH (BSH), traveled 8,693 km after leaving Istanbul on Dec. 4. The cargo is worth about 10.4 million yuan (about 1.59 million U.S. dollars), according to the Xi'an International Trade & Logistics Park. (Xinhua/Li Yibo) He added that the railway connection between China and Europe has become even more vital during the pandemic since freight trains play a crucial role in stabilizing the international logistics supply chain. "Further use of the railway connection between Turkey and China will accelerate economic activity across Eurasia," he said. Compared with the traditional ocean shipping, it takes much less time to travel from Turkey to China with the cargo train, significantly facilitating goods trading between the two countries, said a BSH manager Sun Meng. 

A congratulation ceremony is held for the successful launch of the first cargo train from Turkey to China in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Dec. 23, 2020. The first cargo train from Turkey to China has arrived in the northwestern Chinese city of Xi'an. All goods completed customs clearance, according to local authorities. The cargo train, loaded with 1,383 refrigerators for the home appliance manufacturer BSH Hausgerate GmbH (BSH), traveled 8,693 km after leaving Istanbul on Dec. 4. The cargo is worth about 10.4 million yuan (about 1.59 million U.S. dollars), according to the Xi'an International Trade & Logistics Park. (Xinhua/Li Yibo) "Now we have another fast, efficient and stable way to transport goods," Sun said. China-Europe freight trains to and from Xi'an, capital of Shaanxi Province, saw more than 3,400 trips in the first 11 months of this year, almost double the figure for the same period last year. Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik