Photo taken on Dec. 15, 2020 shows a portrait of Bangladesh's founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in front of the parliament house complex in Dhaka, Bangladesh, decorated with colourful lights on the eve of the country's 50th Victory Day. The country on Wednesday celebrated its 50th Victory day. (Xinhua)Bangladesh on Wednesday celebrated its 50th Victory day with due solemnity and rich tributes paid to the martyrs of the Liberation War of 1971. The Victory Day's programs commenced with a 31-gun salute followed by rich tributes of Bangladeshi President Md Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina at the National Mausoleum in Savar on the outskirts of capital Dhaka in the early hours. 

People pose for photos amid colourful lighting in Dhaka, Bangladesh on the eve of the country's 50th Victory Day, Dec. 15, 2020. The country on Wednesday celebrated its 50th Victory day. (Xinhua) On behalf of the president and the prime minister, their military secretaries placed the floral wreaths at around 6:34 a.m. local time at the altar of the mausoleum. A smartly turned-out contingent of the Bangladesh Armed Forces, meanwhile, gave a state salute, while a bugle played a dirge. 

Photo taken on Dec. 15, 2020 shows Motijheel commercial area in Dhaka, Bangladesh, decorated with colourful lights on the eve of the country's 50th Victory Day. The country on Wednesday celebrated its 50th Victory day. (Xinhua) Due to a fresh surge of COVID-19 cases in the cold weather, this year the day is being observed on a limited scale discarding all sorts of massive gathering with the president and the prime minister not being physically present at the mausoleum. However, the national flag is hoisted atop all government and private buildings while the government and semi-government buildings and other public places illuminated and roads and islands decorated with flags and festoons in Dhaka and elsewhere in the country. 

Photo taken on Dec. 15, 2020 shows a portrait of Bangladesh's founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in front of the parliament house complex in Dhaka, Bangladesh, decorated with colourful lights on the eve of the country's 50th Victory Day. The country on Wednesday celebrated its 50th Victory day. (Xinhua) Imbued with the spirit of independence, government, political, social and cultural organizations drew up programs ensuring social distancing and wearing masks to celebrate the victory of the war. Special prayers are being offered in mosques, temples, pagodas and other places of worship for the departed souls and the country's peace, progress and prosperity. Newspapers have published special supplements marking the day while televisions and radio stations aired special programs. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement