Tourists pose for photos while visiting the grand bazaar in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, July 4, 2020. (Xinhua/Zhao Ge)Urumqi, capital of Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, is giving free COVID-19 tests to all 3.5 million people in the city in the wake of clustered infections. Unlike the citywide testing in Wuhan that was carried out after its lockdown was lifted, the testing in Urumqi will mainly function as a method to track the cause of infection relating to the clustered infections, Zhang Yuexin, a medical expert who is part of the Urumqi anti-epidemic group and also director of the infectious disease department of the First Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University, told the Global Times on Tuesday. COVID-19 tests on all residents will give us a clue as to how many and what kinds of people were infected in the city. There is a chance that COVID-19 long existed in Urumqi before the city reported confirmed cases and adopted any sealing-off measures to curb the virus, and in between those times, large number of people had travelled to other cities, such as Kashgar and East China's Zhejiang Province, Zhang said.Home to about 3.5 million people, Urumqi reported a total of 53 confirmed COVID-19 infections and 55 asymptomatic cases as of Tuesday. The outbreak in Urumqi is linked to a group activity, but the actual origin of the cluster of infections is still unknown. To prevent being affected by the epidemic in Urumqi, many Chinese cities, including Xiangtan and Zhuzhou in Central China's Hunan Province and Jiamusi in Northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, have raised their alert level over people who have travelled to Urumqi since July 1. Those people are required to report their travel histories to local communities and may have to undergo quarantine.Urumqi's outbreak has extended to other cities - Kashgar reported one 69-year-old patient on Sunday who was originally from Urumqi, and before that, on July 16, Zhejiang Province reported one asymptomatic patient who took a flight from Urumqi on July 10. The health authority in Urumqi said Monday that tests for the key population and those under medical observation have been completed. The ongoing free testing will gradually be expanded. The free tests will also cover people currently from outside Urumqi as the local government said all hotels in the city will provide free stays, meals, pick-up services and COVID-19 tests for guests.To complete the citywide testing, Urumqi will see the participation of 25 nucleic acid testing institutions, more than 1,600 medical workers, together with more than 200 people in 10 nucleic acid testing medical teams from 10 provinces and cities organized by the National Health Commission. Medical institutions are working at full pace right now, with testing equipment running 24 hours a day and testing technicians working around the clock, the Global Times learnt. A number of collection points in each of the city's districts have been set up, and the local community will reach and organize residents to receive tests at designated sampling points, the Urumqi Municipal Health Commission said.  An employee from Hongqiao community located in Urumqi's Tianshan district reached by the Global Times said that thousands of residents in her communities had been tested, and sample collection work is about to be completed. When the test results arrive, those who test positive for COVID-19 will be informed by the local community, the employee said. Of the 3,119 people under medical observation, the number of COVID-19 infections will show a downward trend as the first generation of close contacts has mostly been confirmed, Rui Baoling, the director of the local CDC in Urumqi, said on Monday. Urumqi, where in a "wartime mode" fighting against the COVID-19, has sealed all local residential communities and all gatherings were banned. Video circulated online show the current Urumqi is like an empty city.Urumqi's public transportation, including bus and subways as well as intercity passenger lines are suspended but cargo transportations are in normal operation.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Xinjiang police dismiss rumors that woman coming back from Kazakhstan was source of clustered infections  Xinjiang’s capital raises COVID-19 risk level of two districts to highest Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement