A woman uses online ride-hailing service of Ctrip in Beijing on Tuesday. Photo: Li Hao/GTUS-listed Chinese online travel platform Ctrip told the Global Times that it has no comment on media reports claiming that the travel agent is planning to delist from the Nasdaq amid rising tensions between the world's two largest economies and the US regulator's tightened audit rules targeting Chinese firms. Reuters reported on Tuesday that Ctrip has reached out to "a number of financial and strategic investors including private equity firms and domestic tech firms" to fund the plan to go private. The Chinese travel company has a current market value of $16.5 billion, according to media reports. In response, Ctrip said it has "no comment" on the matter, without giving other details. The Reuters report quoted sources close to the matter as saying that the delisting is still at an early stage and is subject to change. Ctrip's reported delisting discussion comes after Tencent announced that it has made a bid to buy out US-listed private search engine Sogou Inc in a $2.1 billion deal. Dong Dengxin, director of the Finance and Securities Institute at the Wuhan University of Science and Technology, told the Global Times on Tuesday that as the market value of Chinese companies such as Sogou and Ctrip has not reached $100 billion, going private raises the prospect of a relisting on exchanges in China amid fraying relations between China and US. Going private is also more convenient compared with a second listing in other markets for those companies."More importantly, it sends a clear and resolute signal that Chinese firms are considering their back-up plans amid a US-led financial decoupling with China. They don't want to be blackmailed by the US side," Dong said. Tech firms Alibaba and JD's secondary listings in Hong Kong and Ant Group's planned listing on both the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (SEHK) and Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) STAR market are expected to prompt more domestic tech firms to follow suit and choose to be listed domestically, analysts said. "Considering US regulators' discrimination against Chinese tech firms, this is a risk-averse choice. And both stock bourses in the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong have the capacity and mechanism to facilitate their comeback," Dong noted. Beijing Local Financial Supervision and Administration Bureau is planning to attract US-listed Chinese firms to return by coming up with supportive policies and carrying out pilots in the "New Third Board" or other bourses, media reported Monday.The Nasdaq recently enhanced the IPO criteria for companies operating in "restricted markets" - jurisdictions with laws that restrict access to information by the regulators of US-listed companies, according to a document released by the US Securities and Exchange Commission in June.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo applauded the exchange's actions, warning US investors against "fraudulent" accounting practices in China-based firms while suggesting the Nasdaq should be a model for all other exchanges across the world. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Chinese netizens urge apology from Ctrip after system glitch affects hundreds Ctrip Q1 revenue growth beats expectations as international businesses expand Ctrip removes products calling South Tibet ‘Arunachal Pradesh’ Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik