Tourists pose for photos near the Sphinx in Giza, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) 

A worker checks the temperature of a man near the ticket office of the Giza Pyramids in Giza, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) 

A man visits the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) 

People visit the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) 

A man takes photos of the golden mask of King Tutankhamun at Egyptian Museum in Cairo, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) 
Tourists visit Temple of Luxor in Luxor, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Str/Xinhua) 

Tourists take selfies at Temple of Luxor in Luxor, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Str/Xinhua)  

A sign reminding people of keeping a distance is seen near the ticket office of the Giza Pyramids in Giza, Egypt, on July 1, 2020. Egypt reopened on Wednesday the Egyptian Museum, the Giza Pyramids, and Temple of Luxor for the first time since the COVID-19 closure in March. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement