Photo: VCGMovie-goers in China were thrilled on Thursday to hear that cinemas nationwide will reopen on July 20, under the requirement of careful social distancing, after being shuttered for about half a year. The first movie to greet them will be a Xinjiang youth film about love and friendship. The China Film Administration announced on Thursday that cinemas in low-risk areas can reopen starting from July 20, while those in high-risk areas will remain closed, as the country has contained the virus spread. To ensure the safety of viewers, cinemas that reopen must strictly implement epidemic-related measures such as the wearing masks, limiting seating capacity for each showing to 30 percent, reducing the number of films to half that of the pre-epidemic period, and banning food and beverages, according to the announcement. Moviegoers must occupy alternate seats with a space of at least one meter between one another. The intervals between showings will be extended for thorough cleaning and disinfection.The news dropped like a bomb among movie fans, who have been waiting a long time. Real-time searches for the keyword "cinema" on Chinese search engine Baidu surged 1,011 percent within an hour after the announcement.On social platform Sina Weibo, netizens gave the titles of movies they wanted to see, even though the playlists for the first day have not been released. These topics had been viewed more than 500 million times as of press time. Some netizens expressed their concerns over potential infection risks. "Despite strict preventive measures, the infection risks are still there. After all, cinemas are not like open parks. The possibility of sitting with potential asymptomatic virus carriers in a confined space for two hours really worries me," commented one Weibo user.A First Farewell, a movie filmed in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region that tells the story of a Xinjiang boy with his friends and mother, was the first movie identified for release on the resumption day. The director of the movie Wang Lina told the Global Times on Thursday that she hoped viewers could feel the warmth of theaters through her movie after such a long hiatus.As the epidemic in China has eased, it is about time to reopen cinemas, said Wang Peiyu, a deputy head of Peking University's School of Public Health.Wang also stressed the importance of rigorously carrying out the preventative measures in cinemas considering the high infection risks posed by confined spaces and high density of viewers.  After experiencing a long downturn due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the announcement has brought hopes to the film industry in China. Alibaba Pictures said on Thursday that "it has fully prepared to resume work" and plans to premiere some films such as the Oscar film 1917. IMAX and Wanda, China's largest exhibitor, announced they would expand a longstanding partnership with a 20-theater agreement, which underscores the value of IMAX to the impending reopening and long-term future of the Chinese exhibition industry, said a document that IMAX sent to the Global Times on Thursday. Ticketing platform Maoyan said it has confidence in the recovery of the film industry. "The resumption of theaters is a good start," the company told the Global Times. It said that it would cooperate with local governments to distribute ticket discount coupons to help the industry recover.However, Shi Wenxue, a film critic and teacher at the Beijing Film Academy, said that the resumption may not completely relieve the industry's financial pressure, as the strict operating requirements would affect cinemas' normal operations.Tian Qingxin, an employee of Daan Pictures, a Beijing-based film company, said that new films are unlikely to be released anytime soon due to a new requirement that the running time of each movie should not exceed two hours. 
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Film sector eyes 40 bln yuan as cinemas reopen Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement