Tourists visit the Grand Bazaar Food Street in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, July 4, 2020. (Xinhua/Ding Lei)Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region reported on Thursday one confirmed and three asymptomatic COVID-19 cases in its capital city Urumqi, ending a run of more than 140 days of zero confirmed cases.An epidemiological investigation is ongoing, and some experts said in view of Xinjiang's strict prevention measures, the newly found cases may be related to imported cases. A female patient had a sore throat starting on July 10 and was transferred to a designated hospital by ambulance. She then had symptoms of fever and headache on Tuesday and tested positive for novel coronavirus, according to a release from the office for COVID-19 prevention work in Urumqi. The patient has been classified as a mild case and an investigation into the source of her infection is underway. Three asymptomatic cases were found after people who had close contact with her were screened. The city has launched an emergency response to the case, and strengthened management of residential communities and crowded areas. It also called on residents to maintain safe social distancing, wear masks and wash their hands regularly. Urumqi announced on Thursday it was suspending all its subway services to prevent the spread of the virus.Prior to these cases, Xinjiang had reported zero cases for more than 140 days. On Thursday, East China's Zhejiang Province also reported one new asymptomatic COVID-19 case in Shaoxing, who is a 50-year-old businessman from Xinjiang. Eight of his close contacts have since been put under quarantine and medical observation at a designated location, the Zhejiang health commission reported on Thursday.According to the health commission, the man got a notice from Xinjiang health authorities to have a nucleic acid test on Tuesday. He drove to a hospital and took a test, which was positive. Yang Zhanqiu, a deputy director of the pathogen biology department at Wuhan University, told the Global Times that the new case in Xinjiang might be related to imported cases. There is no need to panic as the current situation fits the pattern of epidemiology - some confirmed cases might be detected scattered in some places in China, according to Yang.  Xinjiang has followed strict prevention measures after a sudden spike of COVID-19 cases in Beijing in the middle of June. Many places, including Urumqi, asked passengers from high- and middle-risk areas flying into Xinjiang to undergo group quarantine and take nucleic acid tests. Some places in the region banned travelers from entering. In the past week, Kazakhstan has reported "pneumonia of unknown origins," which raised concerns on the possible impact on the neighboring Xinjiang region.  Residents in Urumqi reached by the Global Times on Thursday said that the new COVID-19 case broke the pattern, but they aren't too worried about the situation. "We have confidence in the government and the current prevention measures. We will also pay more attention to individual prevention," a resident surnamed Zhang said. Some residents in Urumqi confirmed to the Global Times that some public facilities, including gyms and swimming pools that previously announced plans to reopen, closed on Thursday for prevention of the coronavirus.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Latest COVID-19 outbreak in Beijing basically controlled, as capital registers zero infections for 10 consecutive days: epidemiologist Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement