Construction workers pose for photos during the inauguration ceremony of a bridge linking Nantong and Zhangjiagang over the Yangtze River in east China's Jiangsu Province, July 1, 2020. The road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday. The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level. (Xinhua/Li Bo)A road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday.The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level.With a main span of 1,092 meters, it is the world's first road-rail cable-stayed bridge with a main span of over 1,000 meters, said Yan Zhigang, deputy chief engineer at the bridge construction headquarters.

Aerial photo taken on July 1, 2020 shows a bridge linking Nantong and Zhangjiagang over the Yangtze River in east China's Jiangsu Province. The road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday. The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level. (Xinhua/Li Bo) The project used 480,000 tonnes of steel, around 12 times that consumed by the main stadium of the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, "Bird's Nest." The bridge also used 2.3 million cubic meters of concrete.The bridge can withstand violent typhoons and impact due to collision with a 100,000-tonnage ship.The bridge is expected to ease pressure on road and railway traffic while promoting the regional integration of the Yangtze River Delta.Last year, China unveiled an outline of the regional integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta, which is one of the country's most economically active, open and innovative regions, and produces about one-fourth of the national GDP.  

Aerial photo taken on June 29, 2020 shows a bridge linking Nantong and Zhangjiagang over the Yangtze River in east China's Jiangsu Province. The road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday. The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) 

An inauguration ceremony of a bridge linking Nantong and Zhangjiagang over the Yangtze River is held in east China's Jiangsu Province, July 1, 2020. The road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday. The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level. (Xinhua/Li Bo) 

Aerial photo taken on July 1, 2020 shows a bridge linking Nantong and Zhangjiagang over the Yangtze River in east China's Jiangsu Province. The road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday. The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level. (Xinhua/Li Bo) 

Aerial photo taken on July 1, 2020 shows a bridge linking Nantong and Zhangjiagang over the Yangtze River in east China's Jiangsu Province. The road-rail cable-stayed bridge with the world's longest span opened to traffic in east China's Jiangsu Province Wednesday. The 11,072-meter bridge over the Yangtze, China's longest river, links Nantong and Zhangjiagang, two cities in Jiangsu. It has a six-lane expressway on the upper deck and four railway tracks on the lower level. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement