Sightseeing horsecarts wait for customers in Bruges, Belgium, July 1, 2020. Belgium entered Phase 4 of de-confinement measures on July 1, as announced by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes on June 24. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong)Belgium entered Phase 4 of de-confinement measures on July 1, as announced by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes on June 24.The number of social contacts allowed has been increased from ten to 15 people per individual and per week.After more than three months of closure, cinemas reopened on Wednesday in Belgium. No big crowds, but people seem happy with the new easing of the restrictions, according to the Belgian newspaper Le Soir.Cultural events can now resume with an audience of up to 200 people indoors and 400 outdoors, provided that the health and safety rules are respected.

Tourists take a sightseeing horsecart in Bruges, Belgium, July 1, 2020. Belgium entered Phase 4 of de-confinement measures on July 1, as announced by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes on June 24. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) Weddings, funerals and cremations can now be attended by a maximum of 200 people. This limit is expected to be increased to 400 people from Aug. 1.During Phase 4, the "six golden rules" continue to apply. These include the obligation to observe the health protocols and measures; preference for outdoor activities; precautionary measures in case of contact with people at risk (elderly people); and respecting safety distances.Meanwhile, the spread of the coronavirus continues to slow down in Belgium. To date, 61,509 cases have been confirmed by the Belgian health institute Sciensano, and 9,754 deaths have been reported since the start of the epidemic.  

A staff member sprays disinfectant on a sightseeing boat in Bruges, Belgium, July 1, 2020. Belgium entered Phase 4 of de-confinement measures on July 1, as announced by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes on June 24. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) 

Tourists take a sightseeing horsecart in Bruges, Belgium, July 1, 2020. Belgium entered Phase 4 of de-confinement measures on July 1, as announced by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes on June 24. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) 

Tourists take a sightseeing boat in Bruges, Belgium, July 1, 2020. Belgium entered Phase 4 of de-confinement measures on July 1, as announced by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes on June 24. (Xinhua/Zheng Huansong) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement