Editor's Notes:China's two sessions of the year, the country's most important political event, opened on Thursday after a two-month delay due to the COVID-19 epidemic.Against the backdrop of epidemic prevention and control as a new normal, the two sessions will demonstrate to the world that China has achieved a decisive phased victory in the battle against COVID-19.As a tradition, the two sessions will invite foreign ambassadors and diplomats in China as guests. The Global Times interviewed ambassadors from six countries. They expressed their biggest interest and expectations toward this year's two sessions.

Winnie N. Chibesakunda, Ambassador of Zambia to China The two sessions have traditionally served as the most important political event in China because they determine major state issues, offer platforms for political consultations and review the government's work. The topics covered during these sessions offer useful insights on what to expect domestically and internationally, which usually include economic, political, cultural, social development, ecological and environmental protection. This year's sessions are special in the sense that they will be held in the midst of the global pandemic of COVID-19. In this regard, my expectations will focus on Chinese government's efforts regarding public health mitigating strategies on the pandemic which the rest of the world could emulate in their efforts to protect people's lives and safety, in particular, how China has implemented anti-epidemic measure to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.Further, I expect China to highlight its timely and generous assistance rendered to many countries, including Zambia, toward the fight of COVID-19 in terms of treatment and social safety nets to the affected citizens. It is also anticipated that China would heighten such generous gestures especially towards most African countries with challenges in health systems in curbing the spread of COVID-19. I also expect China to outline its opening up strategy following the remarkable containment of the COVID-19, which would lead to the normal resumption of all the necessary activities.Other issues of interest would concern how China has implemented its poverty alleviation and how it will conduct its diplomacy and Party governance.All attendees, including all envoys and invited guests, will be required to undergo nucleic acid testing for COVID-19. This I must say is important prevention measure in fighting the pandemic. It also demonstrates a strong resolve by the Chinese authorities in returning the country to normal while fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.This interview was conducted by Li Qiao Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement