Health officials carry the body of a coronavirus victim on a stretcher to container morgues in New York City on April 6. Photo: AFPAs the COVID-19 outbreak continues to rage across the US, the American people are complaining about the White House's "lack of action" in the critical period of pandemic prevention and control, to which, however, Pompeo and his fellow politicians have kept finding excuses for themselves.To be fair, these politicians have truly had a full plate since the outbreak, although on their plate is not how to control the pandemic at home, but how to make trouble for other countries.When China, the country first hit by the virus, was busy containing its spread, the US politicians tried to stick their nose into China's Xinjiang, Taiwan, and Hong Kong and brazenly interfered in the internal affairs of the country by passing the so-called "acts". On the other hand, they put out a number of ludicrous assumptions like "China made the virus" and "China covered up its pandemic situation", in an attempt to stigmatize China in the international community and corner it to a moral predicament. Washington leaves no stone unturned when it comes to the use of these ugly tricks.This isn't the first time that politicians like Pompeo are trying to loot a burning house - they always jump at the first sign of sniffing such an opportunity. They rolled out sanctions against Iran during its domestic turbulence; they tried to have it both ways when Qatar was on bad terms with countries like Saudi Arabia; and they, on the pretext of "democracy and human rights", blatantly backed radical and violent criminals in Hong Kong during the riot and unrest caused by the expatriation law amendment bill.If we go into their ploys seriously, Pompeo and his like are not only professional looters of burning houses, and they set the fire themselves! They first set the house on fire and flame it up, then loot it while occasionally making a gesture of putting out the fire. They are so good at playing "good cop and bad cop" games and busy putting on their farcical performances.Just take a look at what the US has done in the Middle East. The wars it waged against Iraq and Afghanistan left the two countries in lasting turmoil; the Arab Spring it much-trumpeted left Egypt and Syria in prolonged instability; and its instigation and flame-fueling have led to the growing escalation of Palestine-Israel conflicts, in which the US had sowed seeds.Yet certain American politicians have the nerve to reap geopolitical gains where they set fire in the first place. Pompeo and his like even posed as saviors or angels claiming to have brought peace to those areas they left in ruins.How ridiculous and shameful they are! These politicians are accustomed to being cops in name but thieves in nature, calling "stop thief" on the one hand while being that thief on the other. They beautify hegemony as justice and dress up rumor-mongering as freedom of speech.Pompeo and his like are doomed to a pathetic end. As an old Chinese saying goes, good and evil will meet their karma one day or another, which has been verified on Pompeo and his like over and over again. In the Middle East, for instance, America's credibility has been irreversibly destroyed no matter how hard Pompeo and his like are trying to bloat their bubble.The COVID-19 outbreak wouldn't and shouldn't have spread so fast and widely across the US had Pompeo and his like devoted a tiny part of their energy and time into what they should have done. The chaotic disaster of Washington's epidemic control has made millions of Americans suffer, and a growing number of the righteous people are voicing their questions and protests. In contrast, the US media has named Pompeo one of the worst Secretaries of State ever in American history.Turning a blind eye to the chaos and loss of lives at home, Mike Pompeo and his like, adamant on making trouble for the world, have kept disrupting international cooperation and undermining peace undertakings. They have become the common enemy of world peace and are doomed for a pathetic end. The burning house looters will eventually get burned themselves. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement