当前浏览器不能支持视频播放，可下载最新的QQ浏览器或者安装FLASH即可播放



            (function(){
               var option ={"auto_play":"0","file_id":"5285890803230760296","app_id":"1253985869","width":1920,"height":1080,"https":1};
               new qcVideo.Player(
                       "id_video_container_5285890803230760296",
                       option
                   );
             })()
 

Photo: Sina WeiboA Hong Kong lawyer violently beaten by rioters on Sunday has urged that the upcoming national security law be implemented as soon as possible so that violent protesters can no longer "act unscrupulously at their will."The lawyer, 40-year-old Chan Tze-chin, a partner at Cheung and Liu Solicitors, became involved in an argument with dozens of protesters over the proposed national security law at Causeway Bay on Sunday afternoon. Several members of the group began hitting him with umbrellas and gave chase as he tried to escape."They beat me violently for 10 to 20 minutes, like they were trying to kill me," Chan, who was discharged from hospital on Thursday, told the Global Times. Chan said the rioters were acting in an organized manner, with some covering the scene and others raining blows on Chan's head and torso.A video shows Chan struggling to his feet and stumbling away as his assailants left the scene, his face bloodied.Chan says he only suffered bruises, but doctors warned him to be cautious about sequelae, which could include cerebral concussion.Hong Kong Secretary for Justice Teresa Cheng Yeuk-wah's office said she learned about the attack from news footage and felt "shocked and distressed.""The secretary does not agree with any violent acts, let alone attacking passersby or those who hold a different opinion," the office said, adding that the law does not permit anyone to resort to violence, no matter their aim.Hong Kong's Law Society President Melissa Kaye Pang on Sunday condemned the attack.Chan's misery did not end after his hospitalization. He and his family have been doxed by rioters, a tactic adopted by the latter to threaten patriotic figures. Chan said rioters had sent him messages telling him he deserved the violence.Chan believes now is the appropriate time to implement the national security law, as lawless rioters will continue to attack those who hold different views. "Without the law, they are fearless," said Chan. Chan predicts there will be a "final madness" among rioters before the law is scheduled to be formally implemented, and that their violent activities will spike, saying it will be "the darkest time before dawn." "However, the law is intimidating for them, as there have been fewer violent protesters seen on the streets than last year," said Chan. "Some also fear that once the law is imposed, they won't be released by the court as easily as before… they realize they will pay the price." On Monday, the Hong Kong Bar Association expressed concern over the national security law, saying the plan contained "a number of worrying and problematic features."Chan said the association is in favor of the rioters, and many of the city's judges are members. This means many rioters are ignorant of their unlawful behavior, as they have been told they will be covered by association lawyers once they commit crimes, or that they will be helped to cushion their crimes, he added.He asserted that the national security law is coming at the right time. "It will bring justice and stability to Hong Kong," he said. "Once stabilized, Hong Kong can continue to perform its status as a financial harbor and contribute its fair share to our country." Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement