Photo: Xinhua China has expressed strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition to a Canadian court's ruling to keep Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou in custody, urging the country to immediately release the Chinese citizen."The Chinese government is firmly resolved to protect the legitimate and lawful rights and interests of Chinese citizens and companies. We once again urge Canada to take China's solemn position and concerns seriously, to immediately release Meng and allow her to return safely to China, and not to stray further down the wrong path," said the Chinese Embassy in Canada, noting that China has made serious representations to Canada.On Wednesday (Canadian time), the British Columbia Supreme Court of Canada made a ruling on the "double criminality issue" in Meng's case. It concluded that the US' extradition request conformed with the principles concerning double criminality.The US and Canada, by abusing their bilateral extradition treaty and arbitrarily taking forceful measures against Meng, gravely violated the lawful rights and interests of said Chinese citizen, noted the embassy spokesman."The US' purpose is to bring down Huawei and other Chinese high-tech companies, and Canada has been acting in the process as an accomplice of the US," the embassy said. "The whole case is a grave political incident."Chinese netizens expressed pity and outrage online toward the ruling, saying it "harms Canada's credit and reputation as the country is siding with the US in trying to crack down on foreign firms through political means disguised as law.""The ruling showed that Canada has been the loyal lapdog of the US, which has never changed," said a netizen named Yizhimiao."Does the US regard itself as the world's police, since Washington utilizes Canada to press a company?" askeda netizen named Richangqiufu."No good news came after I waited the whole night. The ruling is shameless and Canada should pay for its decision!" a netizen Fengpin said.Huawei told the Global Times on Thursday that the company is disappointed in the ruling by the Supreme Court of British Columbia. "We have repeatedly expressed confidence in Ms Meng's innocence. Huawei continues to stand with Ms Meng in her pursuit of justice and freedom.""We expect that Canada's judicial system will ultimately prove Ms Meng's innocence. Ms Meng's lawyers will continue to work tirelessly to see justice is served," the company said.The ruling by the Canadian court shows Canada has completely surrendered its self-proclaimed judicial and diplomatic independence to US bullying, and foreshadows the "worst-ever" China-Canada ties, experts said.Huawei employees also expressed pity and called for justice."Don't worry, we'll work harder and harder. There's never an easy way to achieve success. Justice will finally come, all we need is ardor, patience and wisdom," a senior executive of Huawei said."Justice may come late, but will never be absent," said another senior employee of Huawei. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement