Hong Kong File Photo: VCG  The UK government says it seeks to extend Hongkongers' visa rights if China pursues its newly proposed national security law. The potential UK move has won overwhelming support from Chinese internet users, who said all traitors should be sent to the UK as they are unwanted on Chinese territory. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has suggested extending the current rights of British National Overseas (BNO) passport holders from Hong Kong to allow them to stay in the UK for six months without a visa, extendable to 12 months and leading to a pathway for future citizenship, if China continues to pursue its proposed national security law in Hong Kong. People with BNO passports can enter the UK visa-free and stay in the country for 180 out of 365 days, but do not have the right to live or work there. About 300,000 Hong Kong residents hold valid BNO passports.  The UK’s move is in response to growing Conservative backbench pressure on the Foreign Office to do more to help Hong Kong citizens fearful China is about to extinguish their independence and political freedoms, UK media reported. The threat has won overwhelming support on Chinese media, with netizens urging the UK to receive all Hong Kong rioters. “We support this! I hope the UK can do it. Send all these traitors to the UK. Chinese territory does not need these people,” said an internet user surnamed Huang.“Rioters, leave Hong Kong as fast as you can so those who stay can focus on restoring order and bringing back prosperity to the Pearl of the Orient,” said another netizen. Many more are calling for the UK to grant citizenship or permanent residency to Hong Kong rioters. “Brits, even one year is too short.”Chinese netizens also voiced their support when Taiwan's DPP leader Tsai Ing-wen said her government would devise special measures to help Hong Kong protestors relocate to the island. “That’s even better. It would be convenient for the Chinese mainland if one day it decides to reunite with the island by military force,” said a net user surnamed Huang. Tsai’s announcement was also mocked by Hong Kong lawmakers. Wong Kwok-kin, Legislative Council member and vice president of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, said he “welcomes” the DPP’s move. If Tsai stands up to her promise and allows Hong Kong rioters to emigrate to Taiwan, that will deal a heavy blow to Taiwan’s society and economy and bring prosperity to Hong Kong.Global Times Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement