A worker transfers medical supplies from China in Cairo, Egypt, on May 10, 2020. Egypt received on Sunday the second batch of medical aid from the Chinese government for the North African country to fight the COVID-19 epidemic. (Xinhua/Wu Huiwo)To help Egypt fight against the deadly coronavirus, the third batch of medical aid supplies from the Chinese government arrived at Cairo international airport on May 16.The medical aid, which includes 1 million medical surgical face masks, 90,000 sets of medical protective clothing and 1,000 sets of thermometers, is the second batch of medical supplies the country has received from the Chinese government this month. The first batch arrived in mid-April.Egyptian Health Ministry Undersecretary Mohamed Shawky said at the ceremony of receiving the third batch of the medical aid that the Chinese medical aid "reflects the close ties of friendship between the two countries.""We present to the international community a model for relations between two friends and mutual support amid a global pandemic that we all suffer from," he said, Xinhua reported.Chinese Ambassador to Egypt Liao Liqiang said at the ceremony that the arrival of the aid coincides with the 64th anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries, highlighting the "profound friendship" between the peoples of the two countries.In the battle against the COVID-19, China and Egypt demonstrated solidarity and spirit of mutual aid, analysts said. When China was fighting an arduous battle against COVID-19, Egypt also provided extensive support. In March, Egyptian Health Minister Hala Zayed arrived at Beijing to show solidarity with China at the critical time. She brought medical supplies including masks from Egypt to China. "The Egyptian political leadership is keen on maintaining solidarity with China and the Chinese people during such critical conditions," said the health minister, Xinhua reported.Zayed told the Global Times in Beijing in March that "the masks are our gift to our friends in China." She praised the measures taken by the Chinese government.Now as Egypt is fighting against COVID-19, Chinese doctors also hosted video conference meetings to share medical experience with Egyptian counterparts.When the pandemic subsides, Egyptian Ambassador to China Dr. Mohamed El Badri told the Global Times the country expects to welcome more Chinese tourists with more flights from China to Egypt.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Egypt reports 346 new COVID-19 cases as tally nears 10,000 Egypt receives 2nd batch of anti-coronavirus medical aid from Chinese gov't Feature: Egypt's military plant produces sterilization cabins, isolation rooms for combating COVID-19 Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement