Editor's Notes:China's two sessions of the year, the country's most important political event, opened on Thursday after a two-month delay due to the COVID-19 epidemic.Against the backdrop of epidemic prevention and control as a new normal, the two sessions will demonstrate to the world that China has achieved a decisive phased victory in the battle against COVID-19.As a tradition, the two sessions will invite foreign ambassadors and diplomats in China as guests. The Global Times interviewed ambassadors from six countries. They expressed their biggest interest and expectations toward this year's two sessions.

Naghmana Alamgir Hashmi, Ambassador of Pakistan to ChinaThe two sessions enjoy great significance in the annual political calendar of China. They have come to occupy increasing importance in view of China's enhanced role in global politics and economics in the last three decades. This year's sessions, however, are even more important as they are being held at a critical juncture when the international community is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic with the specter of impending global recession looming large. The upcoming sessions would deliberate upon an array of issues with implications not only for China but for the world at large. Since China's economy is greatly integrated and enmeshed with the global economy, 'The Plan for China's Economic and Social Development for 2020' to be reviewed in the upcoming National People's Congress session would be of great interest, both for local and international observers. In the wake of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, it is also expected that the two sessions would deliberate on the measures to improve healthcare and emergency response system including refining the existing laws for prevention of infectious diseases, and wildlife protection. I would also be looking forward to the discussion on the draft civil code which would be submitted to the NPC session for final deliberations. The draft civil code is the most extensive legislation covering various aspects of private life. Its various provisions, in fact, are the product of necessities of current time. The draft civil code, if passed, would constitute a major milestone in constitutional history of China. I am hopeful that the upcoming two sessions would be an important event to brainstorm new ideas which would further promote the prosperity and development of China and bring the nation a step closer to achieving its two centenary goals. This interview was conducted by Wang Bozun Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement