HK File Photo: VCGAfter a preparatory meeting for the third session of the 13th NPC, Zhang Yesui, spokesperson of the National People’s Congress (NPC), announced a new agenda and arrangements for the national security law to be implemented in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). The proposed legislation indicates the central government’s firm determination to fix the loopholes within the legislative system of the HKSAR while intervention and stigmatization from external forces and local separatists continue to erode the foundation of the South China city, deputies and members to the two sessions told the Global Times. And this also shows that the central government would safeguard China’s core interests at all costs. The move came after a growing number of Hong Kong deputies and members to the 2020 two sessions – the country’s most important political event – called for the passing of national security legislation in the Special Administrative Region (SAR) as the city has become the latest battleground for secessionist forces, following the months-long turmoil in 2019. Passing the law has become an urgent task for both the central government and the HKSAR government. It’s called the Establishment and Framework of the Legal System and Enforcement Mechanism for the Safeguarding of National Security in the HKSAR, which would take effect by being included in Annex III of the Basic Law, some Hong Kong media anticipated, which needs no approval by Hong Kong's Legislative Council （LegCo）. The fourth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee held in October 2019 proposed the improvement of the legal system and implementation mechanism for the special administrative regions to safeguard national security. The HKSAR is an inseparable part of the People's Republic of China, and the National People's Congress is the highest authority in the country.  It is absolutely necessary for the NPC to exercise the functions and powers entrusted to it by the Constitution, to establish and improve the legal system and enforcement mechanism of the HKSAR to safeguard national security at the national level, and to uphold and improve the governance system of “one country, two systems,” Zhang, the NPC spokesperson, told the press conference.   Formulating a legislature for Hong Kong on national security issue shows that the central government is determined to safeguard its sovereignty over the special administrative region and will protect the territory from falling into the hands of the hostile forces at all cost, especially after the Hong Kong SAR government has been weakened in the past years fending off growing risks caused by local secessionists and foreign intervention, Lau Siu-kai, a vice-president of the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macao Studies, told the Global Times on Thursday. Establishing the "Hong Kong version of the National Security Law" aims to not only tackle the chaos in Hong Kong, but also respond to the some security threats emerged in the SAR to the country, Lau said, noting that while the riots continue in Hong Kong and the US increases its efforts to contain the Chinese mainland, Washington’s intention of using Hong Kong as a pawn to counterbalance the China has become increasingly palpable. This also shows that to protect national sovereignty over the SAR and prevent the jurisdiction of the SAR from falling into the hands of hostile forces, the central government "will maintain its basic interests and principles at all costs."A coalition of the alliance for Article 23, Politihk Social Strategic and Citizens Alliance of HK, on Thursday presented a letter to Carrie Lam, chief executive of the HKSAR government, urging the complete enactment of Article 23 of the Basic Law within the term of the incumbent LegCo, according to a copy of the letter the coalition sent to the Global Times. “More than 2 million citizens have signed a petition in support of the Article 23 throughout the 18 districts in the city, showing that there is a fundamental call for the passage of the legislation,” the letter read. The delayed passage of Article 23 of the Hong Kong Basic Law, which prohibits acts of treason, secession, sedition and subversion against the central government, has led to relentless radical protests in the city since last year.Witman Hung Wai-man, principal liaison officer for Hong Kong at the Shenzhen Qianhai Authority and a Hong Kong deputy to the NPC, told the Global Times on Thursday that Article 23 legislation has almost been stigmatized since 2003 when a mass protest was staged to oppose the passing of it. He noted the legislation will meet opposition whenever it is promoted."There is never a right time. Article 23 is the constitutional duty of the HKSAR and we need to fulfill that duty instead of waiting for the right time. We need to create the right time and right environment, including education, publicity, lobbying and crafting a good law," Hung said.More than 10 deputies and members to the NPC and the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) from the HKSAR interviewed by the Global Times on Thursday expressed their willingness to push for the legislation. “It’s everyone’s responsibility to safeguard national security. So, everyone should stand up and push for it. We can’t leave a vacuum which has been exploited by various forces to create chaos in Hong Kong. This is absolutely intolerable,” Ma Fung-kwok, head of Hong Kong’s delegation to the two sessions, told the Global Times on Thursday. If there’s no guarantee of national security, there’s no business and social development, Ma said, noting that no matter what would be the major obstacles in establishing the law, policymakers have to adhere to the fundamental bottom lines, and the process can’t be affected by external factors like intervention from some foreign countries.  Stanley Ng Chau-pei, an NPC deputy from Hong Kong, told the Global Times in a recent interview that his proposal to the NPC this year calls for the country’s top legislature to introduce the national law in Hong Kong to stop the chaos that has been beleaguering the city since June 2019.A new national security law for the special administrative regions could be applied to Hong Kong, according to the Basic Law under Article 18, which will strengthen law enforcement in Hong Kong to ensure stability in the financial hub, Ng said.  
        RELATED ARTICLES:  Parenting beyond age: Latvian lady tends over 200 elderly residents in a Shanghai retirement home Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement