Visitors pose for a selfie with Chinese national flags in front of the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. The hall will host several events at the annual two sessions, including the plenary meetings of China's top legislative body and political advisory body. Photo: ICA social survey of young people showed that more than 90 percent would be paying greater attention to the two sessions this year, with people's livelihoods and employment being the two most closely watched aspects. The survey covered 1,984 young people aged from 18 to 35 and was conducted by the China Youth News Agency, with 91.5 percent of them showing greater interest in this year's two sessions. The Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, the top advisory body, and the National People's Congress (NPC), the country's top legislature,  will kick off on Thursday and Friday, respectively.The average age of the respondents in this survey was 28, with those born after 1990 accounting for more than half of the total. "Young people are vulnerable to risks posed by unstable social and economic factors, especially at a time of economic slowdown and  employment pressure mounted due to the COVID-19 outbreak," Zhao Lianfei, a member of the expert committee for youth development planning of the Youth League Central Committee, told the Global Times on Thursday. "Their work and lives are affected more by the country's macro-policies and development plans, that's why they care more,"said Zhao, who is also a fellow researcher of the Institute of Sociology at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.According to the survey, people's livelihoods and employment were the top two topics that the young people cared most, followed by income, tax, health care, poverty alleviation and education. Tao Zhen, 32, who works in a Beijing-based bond company, told the Global Times on Thursday that she would keep a close eye on the proposals related to economy at the two sessions, as they will determine to a great extent many of her personal financial decisions, such as buying a house and purchasing healthcare products. The respondents also rated the country in different aspects. On a 10-point scale, China's national security draws the highest  score of 8.34, while public heath, economic development and international relations all had scores higher than 7.5. Social participation from young people has increased in recent years, Zhao said, noting that according to his previous studies, China's young people, represented by the post-1990s generations, are generally more active in political discussions than those in previous eras, which is another reason why they are showing greater interest in this year's two sessions. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement