Photo taken on May 22, 2020 shows a view of King's College, University of Cambridge, in Cambridge, Britain. According to local media, there will be no face-to-face lectures at the University of Cambridge over the course of the next academic year due to COVID-19. However, lectures will be available to students online and it may be possible to host smaller teaching groups in person if they meet social distancing requirements, the university said. (Photo by Tim Ireland/Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 22, 2020 shows a sign outside Queen's College, University of Cambridge, which is closed to visitors, in Cambridge, Britain. According to local media, there will be no face-to-face lectures at the University of Cambridge over the course of the next academic year due to COVID-19. However, lectures will be available to students online and it may be possible to host smaller teaching groups in person if they meet social distancing requirements, the university said. (Photo by Tim Ireland/Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 22, 2020 shows a sign outside Trinity College, University of Cambridge, which is closed to visitors, in Cambridge, Britain. According to local media, there will be no face-to-face lectures at the University of Cambridge over the course of the next academic year due to COVID-19. However, lectures will be available to students online and it may be possible to host smaller teaching groups in person if they meet social distancing requirements, the university said. (Photo by Tim Ireland/Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 22, 2020 shows a sign outside Trinity College, University of Cambridge, which is closed to visitors, in Cambridge, Britain. According to local media, there will be no face-to-face lectures at the University of Cambridge over the course of the next academic year due to COVID-19. However, lectures will be available to students online and it may be possible to host smaller teaching groups in person if they meet social distancing requirements, the university said. (Photo by Tim Ireland/Xinhua)  

Photo taken on May 22, 2020 shows a view of King's College, University of Cambridge, in Cambridge, Britain. According to local media, there will be no face-to-face lectures at the University of Cambridge over the course of the next academic year due to COVID-19. However, lectures will be available to students online and it may be possible to host smaller teaching groups in person if they meet social distancing requirements, the university said. (Photo by Tim Ireland/Xinhua) Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement