US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Photo: AFPThe blames that certain American politicians have been trying to shift to China have all backfired on themselves, and the hardest-working blame-game player Mike Pompeo is considered by many American media and netizens as "one of the worst Secretaries of State in history."Shifting the blame to others has eventually boomeranged against themselves. What exactly have they done to shift the blame then?At first, the American politicians played "face change" repeatedly. They praised China's anti-virus efforts when COVID-19 first broke out in the country. Then all of a sudden, they changed their tune and began to criticize China. The U-turn in their attitude came at a subtle timing when the outbreak quickly escalated in the US. With a mentality of speculation and adventurism, the anxious and upset US politicians felt no qualms about going back on their own words. What an eye-opening farce for the world!Later, they joined efforts to stigmatize China. As the pandemic spread ever more quickly across the US to the brink of going completely out of control, some politicians couldn't wait to stand up and collectively slam and smear China, using very tough and strong words even though they knew the accusations carried no weight. Being incompetent in controlling the pandemic at home, they have been adamant about scapegoating China and put forth all sorts of China-bashing fallacies.But the truth always beats lies in the end. The false accusations made by those politicians were not bought even by their own people, not to mention the rest of the world. When asked if they had any evidence to prove that the virus came from China, the politicians just beat around the bush, unable to give a direct answer. Their bluffing trick, after playing for a long time, was seen through. The continuously worsening pandemic situation in the US has infuriated its media and people so much that criticisms of the government and its officials for their slow and bungled response have never stopped. Facts have proven that these politicians, failing to shift the blame, have finally shot themselves in the foot.Now that the blame-game doesn't work, the true situation about America's pandemic prevention and control can no longer be covered up. It is exactly because of those American politicians who, instead of concentrating on bringing the outbreak under control, are only focused on smearing other countries and shifting the blame to others that the US has left the world far behind in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases. As of May XX, the US has reported nearly XXX confirmed cases. Closer scrutiny would show that their blame-game just revealed their incorrigible "sinophobia paranoia."Some American politicians have been trumpeting the "end of history" theory. They don't want to see a fast-developing and strong China, much less a successful socialist country. Still, history rolls forward irrespective of personal wishes, and no force can stop China's progress. Thanks to the tremendous efforts made since the outbreak, China has achieved remarkable success in containing the virus, and resumed business operation and production across the country. In contrast, the US has become the epicenter of the global pandemic, with the virus spreading further, and the number of infections and deaths still on the rise. Such a comparison is the last thing that those infected with "sinophobia paranoia" want to see. So, they played the blame-game to pass the buck for their poor epidemic response, and defame and throw obstacles at China's development. How insidious! Justice lies in people's hearts. The people of the world have seen clearly that the fancy slogans like "America first" and "making America great again" should be based on "bearing responsibilities" rather than shirking them. The irresponsible and unconscionable move of shifting blame will in no way help with the anti-epidemic efforts; rather, it will only lead to an irremediable situation where the US has no choice but to eat the bitter fruit of its own making.There is an old Chinese saying that goes "lift a rock only to drop it on one's own feet," which is similar to "shift the blame only to have it backfire." We advise those American politicians, who confuse right with wrong, cling to the past, maintain biased viewpoints and randomly shift blame, to stop making anti-China noises and face up to justice, reason, and public opinion. After all, blaming China won't cure your "disease" or make your wish to curb China's development come true. That the US insists on going its own way stubbornly and recklessly will only make itself a laughing stock and the target of disdain. Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement