Vessels in the Taiwan Straits, July 20, 2017. /CGTN Photo"Don't say we didn't warn you." China's national newspaper the People's Daily addressed intelligence agents on the island of Taiwan in a commentary published on Thursday, urging them to cease rampant spying activities on the Chinese mainland or face consequences.The latest warning came after China's state security department uncovered hundreds of Taiwan espionage cases against the Chinese mainland under its "Thunder-2020" operation. "Don't say we didn't warn you" was originally a Qing Dynasty phrase, and has become a key phrase used by Chinese official media as the most severe warning previously issued before shots were fired in military operations. The phrase has been used several times before, such as in 1962 and 1978, not long before China's military operations against provocations by Indian and Vietnamese troops, respectively.During the Doklam standoff with India in 2017, China Central Television also used the phrase. Going from more than 100 cases in 2018 to hundreds in 2020, the increase in the number of Taiwan espionage cases reflects the fact that the separatist Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) on the island and their intelligence agencies are going wild like "a desperate beast" in carrying out all kinds of intelligence infiltration and sabotage activities against the mainland, states the People's Daily commentary, which is titled "Standing on the right side of history."The DPP led by Tsai Ing-wen in Taiwan island has intensified ties with foreign anti-China forces and frequently made trouble, seriously jeopardizing peace and stability across the Taiwan Straits.At home, the DPP authorities are engaged in a "green terror" separatist movement, closely monitoring the residents on the island and restricting cross-Straits exchanges. Abroad, the DPP has tried to use money and intelligence for "diplomacy" with foreign countries, and have shown themselves willing to serve as pawns, selling out China's sovereignty and vital interests of residents on the island in exchange for "protection" from the US and other Western countries, the commentary says.It says people across the Straits don't want to go to war, but if war breaks out, the culprit will be the secessionists. "We make no promise to renounce the use of force and reserve the option of taking all necessary means. This does not target compatriots in Taiwan, but the interference of external forces and the very small number of 'Taiwan independence' separatists and their activities.""We advise the Taiwan intelligence agencies not to be kidnapped by the 'dead end chariot' of Taiwan secessionists, which will run for only one end, that is, to be smashed and ruined," the commentary goes.The piece warns the secessionists in the Taiwan intelligence agencies that "to play with fire will  get you burned and ruined. Turning away from the darkness is the right way out.""We hope the secessionists can have a clear understanding of the situation as soon as possible… Don't head for doom," it says, adding, "Don't say we didn't warn you." The commentary noted that the mainland's door of communication and exchange is always open to compatriots across the Straits and it welcomes cooperation in all fields and all forms. "We believe that as long as compatriots across the Straits share the interests of the nation and work together, we will be able to share the great glory of the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation," it reads.Global Times Massive changes to California voting spark fears of Iowa-style primary chaosAsian Americans wait for their turn to shine in HollywoodCal's epidemic protection services still have room for improvement