A woman walks past the Colosseum in Rome, Italy, on March 13, 2020. (Photo by Elisa Lingria/Xinhua) The Italian Stock Exchange opened Monday's trading session stronger based in part on strong economic data of China, though worries about the spread of the coronavirus in many parts of Europe help chip away the gains late in the day. On Sunday, China revealed that its economy grew 4.9 percent in the third quarter of this year compared with the same period in 2019. That brought the economic growth rate for the world's second-largest economy to 0.7 percent over the first nine months of the year. According to International Monetary Fund models, China is expected to be the only economy among the world's 20 largest to see positive economic growth this year, despite domestic lockdown measures and the global economic slowdown resulted from the coronavirus pandemic. Traders in Milan opened the week's trading encouraged by the news from China. According to Italian financial news sites, the market was buoyed both by the impact a strong economy in China will have on Italian companies working there and speculation on what the latest data might imply for the global economy. The Italian exchange's blue-chip index opened just above Friday's close and climbed more than 1 percent before coronavirus fears started to set in. Coronavirus infections have risen in Italy in recent weeks, and the government tightened some restrictions over the weekend. In other parts of Europe, the infection rate has even climbed more and restrictions have been tightened to a greater degree. Financial news sites said worries related to the pandemic sparked a round of profit-taking, with the main index closing even to the day's start. So far, the Italian Stock Exchange has gained back around half of its losses from peaks before the start of the pandemic. Year of the Rat stampSpectators dazzled at 131st Rose ParadeDiving Santa Global Times and Pakistan Observer signs MoUThe 3rd Sino-Nordic Cup Football Tournament draws crowdsGlobal Times begins cooperation with Sputnik